# C-3PO

C-3PO (See-Threepio) was a 3PO-series protocol droid designed to interact with organics, programmed primarily for etiquette and protocol. Sometimes referred to as Threepio, he was fluent in over six million forms of communication, and developed a fussy and worry-prone personality throughout his many decades of operation. Along with his counterpart, the astromech droid R2-D2, C-3PO constantly found himself directly involved in pivotal moments of galactic history, and aided in saving the galaxy on many occasions.

C-3PO was rebuilt from spare parts by Anakin Skywalker, an enslaved human who lived in Mos Espa, a city on the Outer Rim world of Tatooine. During the Clone Wars, he would serve the Naboo Senator Padmé Amidala. Shortly after the Clone Wars, C-3PO's memory was erased, though R2-D2's memory was not. C-3PO and R2-D2 were assigned to the Alderaan cruiser Tantive IV, where they served senator Bail Organa for nineteen years, assisting in his fledgling resistance movement against the Galactic Empire. At some point during this time, C-3PO's right leg was fitted with mismatched plating.

C-3PO remained constant companions with R2, and in 0 BBY, the pair became embroiled in the Galactic Civil War when Leia Organa of the Rebel Alliance entrusted them to bring a copy of the Death Star plans to the Jedi Master Obi-Wan Kenobi on Tatooine. After meeting Skywalker's son, Luke and the smuggler Han Solo, the droids helped rescue Princess Leia from the Empire's Death Star. They became directly attached to the three humans, helping them and their rebellion defeat the Empire and restore freedom to the galaxy, most notably when he convinced the Ewoks to aid the Rebels at the Battle of Endor.

Following the Battle of Endor, C-3PO continued serving the Skywalkers and Solo during the time of the New Republic. About thirty years after the events on Endor, C-3PO was still an aide to Organa, who had become a general in the Resistance, a private military group opposed to the First Order, a military junta that emulated the Old Empire. By that time, C-3PO was fitted with a new set of gold plating, which had a more symmetrical design than his previous coverings, with the exception of his head. His new coverings included a third finger joint, and a torso that was not as slim as it used to be. Because of his new plating, he no longer had a mismatched right lower leg. Although, he did end up wearing a red left arm for a very short time. By that time, C-3PO's language database had also been updated so that he could understand and communicate in over seven million different forms of communication, including ancient Sith dialects. He would assist Rey in translating Sith writings in order to locate Darth Sidious and the Sith Eternal's fleet, the Final Order, on Exegol, allowing his memory to be wiped in order to carry out the task. However, his friend R2 backed up a large portion of his memories, and after the Resistance defeated Sidious and the Sith Eternal in the Battle of Exegol, his memory was restored.

In an early incarnation, C-3PO served as a protocol droid to the chief negotiator for the Manakron system.[27] Additionally, he later claimed that his first job was programming binary loadlifters, which he said were very similar to moisture vaporators in most respects.[12]

At some point, however, C-3PO was seriously damaged[28] and his vital components were left behind on a junk pile on Tatooine. Anakin Skywalker, a slave boy from the Tatooinian city of Mos Espa, collected scrap parts[29] and started rebuilding C-3PO in 34 BBY[30] so the droid would help his mother.[29] As Anakin longed for a life far from Tatooine and explore the galaxy, he hoped to have C-3PO as his and his mother's faithful companion so they would be able to venture the galaxy one day and understand and understood the languages of the natives they could come across with, given C-3PO's capability of millions of communication forms.[31] Although protocol droids were normally designed for light duty in luxurious environments, Skywalker specially modified C-3PO so he could withstand Tatooine's sand and heat.[32] C-3PO served Anakin and his mother Shmi by performing household chores. During his time with Skywalker and Shmi, C-3PO's parts and wiring were left exposed since Skywalker was unable to outfit him with an outer covering due to droid plating being too expensive.[2]

Following the Trade Federation's invasion of the Mid Rim planet of Naboo, C-3PO's life entered a new chapter when his owner Anakin met several off-worlders at the shop of his owner, the Junk dealer Watto, and then invited them to seek shelter at his home during a sandstorm. The Jedi Master Qui-Gon Jinn, the Queen of Naboo Padmé Amidala, the Gungan Jar Jar Binks, and the astromech droid R2-D2 were brought to the slave quarters that Anakin shared with his mother Shmi. As a result of this invitation, Amidala and R2-D2 were introduced to C-3PO. Anakin plugged in one of C-3PO's photoreceptors,[2] which became the first time C-3PO had experienced sight.[33] Upon meeting R2-D2, C-3PO was shocked when the candid astromech droid commented that he was "naked." Despite the exchange, the two droids fast developed a friendship of sorts, working together to help Skywalker make final adjustments to his podracer in time to race it in the Boonta Eve Classic race. While working on the podracer, the two droids discussed space travel and noted the clumsy actions of Binks.[2]

On the day of the race, C-3PO represented his owner in the opening flag parade, carrying Skywalker's flag onto the course prior to the start of the race. He then stood on the sidelines with R2-D2 and two of Skywalker's playmates, Kitster Banai and Wald, who cheered their friend on. Skywalker won the race, which, thanks to a deal that Jinn had struck with Watto, earned the boy his freedom from slavery and secured Jinn the hyperdrive generator he needed to leave the planet. As Skywalker prepared to depart Tatooine, he said his goodbyes to C-3PO, apologizing for not having completed the droid's construction, and expressing his wishes that Shmi wouldn't sell him.[2]

Later, his owner Shmi was sold to the moisture farmer Cliegg Lars, who freed and married her. Shmi brought C-3PO along with her, and the protocol droid found himself in the service of the Lars family, who owned a moisture farm in the Jundland Wastes.[16] Shmi covered him[34] in a tarnished grey plating to shield him from Tatooine's sandy environment. Ten years after his parting with Anakin Skywalker, Shmi was kidnapped by a group of Tusken Raiders, fearsome nomads native to Tatooine's desert wastes. Sensing his mother's pain and anguish through the Force, Anakin returned with his secret lover and childhood friend Padmé Amidala to find his mother. Skywalker had advanced in his Jedi training as a Padawan under the tutelage of Obi-Wan Kenobi, while Amidala had become a Senator in the Galactic Senate.[16]

When Skywalker and Amidala visited the Lars' moisture farm, they found C-3PO working on a moisture vaporator. He initially didn't recognize Skywalker until the latter finished his name for him when introducing himself. Greeting his Maker, C-3PO discovered that Skywalker had come in search of his mother, and brought the two guests into the homestead's courtyard, where they were met by Cliegg Lars, as well as his son, Owen Lars and his girlfriend, Beru Whitesun. Learning of his mother's peril, Skywalker took Owen's speeder bike to find her, and soon returned with her corpse, having recovered it from a Tusken village. C-3PO was present when he arrived, and later attended a funeral for Shmi on the farm's property. When R2-D2, who had been waiting aboard Amidala's nearby yacht, interrupted the funeral with an urgent message for the Padawan, C-3PO translated the astromech's binary beeps and whistles. After viewing the holocomm message, Skywalker and Amidala departed Tatooine for Geonosis to rescue Skywalker's Jedi Master Obi-Wan Kenobi, taking Threepio with them.[16]