# Jedi

A Jedi, often called a Jedi Knight, was a devotee to the ways of the Jedi Order, an ancient order of protectors united by their ability to harness the power of the Force. Adhering to a doctrine that favored the light side of the Force, the Jedi aspired to attain a state of inner tranquility through calmness and meditation while avoiding emotions affiliated with the dark side of the Force, such as anger and hatred. Nevertheless, Jedi philosophy did not forbid a Jedi from acting in self-defense or in the defense of others, and they were colloquially known as Space Wizards to citizens of the galaxy. To that end, a Jedi's only possession was their lightsaber, a symbol of their role as guardians of peace and justice.

Before the time of the Galactic Empire, Jedi worked with the Galactic Republic with a commitment to freedom and democracy. The Jedi and the Republic's ideals brought them into conflict with an order of dark side wielders known as the Sith, who sought power and dominion over the galaxy. Emerging victorious from their wars with the ancient Sith, the Jedi carried on in their duty as peacekeepers for over a millennium until the advent of the Clone Wars twenty-two years before the Battle of Yavin. Faced with a pan-galactic civil war between the Republic and Confederacy of Independent Systems, the Jedi adopted the mantle of generals and soldiers in the Grand Army of the Republic. After three years of conflict, the Jedi discovered that the Sith had deceived them and engineered the war to restore them back to power. However, just before the Sith were defeated, the Jedi were betrayed by one of their own—the Chosen One Anakin Skywalker, who had been seduced to the dark side and anointed Darth Vader by the Sith Lord Darth Sidious. Using the Jedi's own clone troopers to initiate a systematic purge of the Jedi Order, the Lords of the Sith all but eradicated the Jedi in one fell swoop, reducing the order from thousands of Jedi Knights guarding the galaxy, to a handful of survivors cast into exile across the galaxy.

The Sith ruled the galaxy through the Empire for a generation, but did not succeed in completely wiping out the Jedi Order. As a result, Ezra Bridger and Luke Skywalker were, in turn, trained as new Jedi by Jedi Knight Kanan Jarrus and Jedi Master Obi-Wan Kenobi, respectively. Skywalker, the son of Vader, was also taught the ways of the Jedi by Grand Master Yoda and fought for the Alliance to Restore the Republic during the Galactic Civil War. On his death bed, Yoda gave his final apprentice the mandate of passing on his lessons to a new generation of Jedi. Shortly afterward, Skywalker succeeded in redeeming his father, who sacrificed himself to save his son by killing his Sith Master, Emperor Sidious, thereby destroying the Sith and fulfilling the prophecy of the Chosen One.

During the era of the New Republic, Skywalker worked to rebuild the Jedi Order by training a dozen apprentices, including his young but powerful nephew, Ben Solo, but Solo fell to the dark side and became Kylo Ren, apprentice of Supreme Leader Snoke, master of the Knights of Ren, and a warlord of the First Order, while Skywalker's training temple and students were destroyed. As the First Order rose to power, Ren and Snoke sought to destroy Skywalker, who, in self-exile, briefly trained Rey in the ways of the Jedi until he sacrificed himself to save the Resistance, after which time Skywalker's sister, Leia Organa, continued her training. When a reborn Darth Sidious—Rey's grandfather—revealed himself to the galaxy, Ben Solo, the opposite in a dyad in the Force with Rey, was redeemed, and Rey sacrificed herself to destroy the phantom Sith Lord, preventing the rebirth of the Sith Order. Rey was saved from death by Solo, who gave his life for hers, allowing the Jedi to live on.

The Jedi Knights focused on calmness and peace to channel their powers in the Force, using the light side of the Force to serve in the capacity of guardians of peace and justice in the galaxy.[4] Even so, the Jedi sought to preserve balance in the Force; the ancient prophecy of the Chosen One foretold of a being who would restore balance to the Force by destroying the Sith. In combat, whereas an enemy may grow impatient and rely on their overwhelming strength, a Jedi would meditate and find serenity in their mind to focus.[1] A Jedi used the Force for defense and knowledge rather than use it to gain power over others.[2] Their chosen weapon the lightsaber, a weapon with limitations, likewise symbolized the care a Jedi took wielding their gifts and that when a Jedi fights it is with intention and precision, ending conflict while injuring no more, or taking no more life, than the lightsaber's wielder chooses. [22] Always supposed to put the needs of others before their own,[23] a Jedi was supposed to be selfless[9] and work to save others above themselves.[24] Like all people, Jedi were imperfect and always needed to strive to better themselves, meaning it was impossible to be a "perfect Jedi."[25]

Because of their ability in the Force, a Jedi, even if they lacked a physical weapon, was never defenseless,[26] and some Jedi were capable of appearing after death as Force spirits.[2][27][10] The Jedi considered themselves instruments of the Force,[4] and during the time of the Galactic Republic, peacekeepers instead of soldiers.[5] Striving to be majestic yet simple,[24] knowledge, the Force, and self-discipline were considered the three pillars of Jedi strength.[28] Instead of acting for selfish aims,[9] such as securing wealth or power, the Jedi focused their pursuits on learning, reaching enlightenment,[23] helping others[9] in a just fashion,[25] and finding balance.[29] The Jedi believed that—no matter one's physical appearance—everyone was internally made up of light. Individuals who did not understand the Force took to calling Jedi "space wizards."[24]

Through the Jedi Order all Jedi belonged to, a Jedi was connected to the entire galaxy.[25] As part of the Order, a single Jedi had the advantage of a structured community to rely on and gain confidence from.[24] In the opinion of Padawan Matthea Cathley, the Jedi were better as a group than on their own.[23] Similarly, Jedi Knight Obi-Wan Kenobi thought of the Order as something that proved that, in being a Jedi, he was part of something bigger than himself.[30] Indeed, the Jedi could rely on their Order in tough times, enabling an individual Jedi to act in a bold fashion and make large scale choices about spreading light. One enemy of the Jedi, Eye of the Nihil Marchion Ro, thus regarded the Jedi Order as something the Jedi would tap into, much like their ability to tap into the Force itself.[24]

The life of a Jedi was full of hardships. Training to become a Jedi was difficult, according to Jedi Master Qui-Gon Jinn, and those who succeeded were faced with a hard life ahead.[1] Adherence to the Jedi way required a disciplined mind and a strong sense of commitment, and it was considered unbecoming of a Jedi to seek adventure or excitement.[2] The Jedi Code therefore regulated the lives of individual Jedi, their actions and beliefs, and the policies of the Jedi Order. While the Code permitted compassion, attachment and possession were forbidden to the Jedi.[5] The Jedi believed that attachment led to jealousy, and greed in turn, and ultimately the fear of loss which was a pathway to the dark side of the Force.[9] Through the Force, the Jedi hoped to direct themselves through their passions, instead of acting in an impulsive manner.[31] Forgoing attachment was also considered essential to a Jedi's progress in mastering their Force powers,[21] as their training could last from years to a lifetime.[32] Despite the importance of non-attachment in the Jedi vow, there was disagreement on what that specifically meant.[33]

Some Jedi took it to mean they needed to suppress their emotions, such as vanquishing love and discomfort from themselves, whereas others believed trying to master emotion went against the ideals of the Order. For the latter group of Jedi, emotions like love were centered upon the idea of letting go. Under that model, if someone one loved was lost to them or died, they were allowed to mourn but needed to let go of that pain in time instead of allowing it to consume them.[33] Indeed, the Jedi accepted death as a part of the natural course of life, believing that the deceased should be celebrated instead of mourned for becoming one with the Force.[9] Detachment was nonetheless one of the most difficult lessons for Jedi to learn, as it took practice and repetition to master. Learning the lesson—that, to be a Jedi, one needed to "let go"—multiple times over his long life,[33] Grand Master Yoda was able to carry the belief to his deathbed after a lifespan of nine centuries, even accepting his death—the death of all life—as the way of the Force.[34]

Indeed, the Jedi understood feelings like love to be natural; Jedi were allowed to feel these emotions,[35] but their task was to balance their strong feelings.[33] With an understanding of their strongest emotions, it was hoped a Jedi would analyze what, deep down, made them feel the way they did. Able to then address their underlining motivations, the Jedi could formulate the best possible path forward instead of allowing themself to act without thinking. Attachments like romance were understood to be distractions from the Jedi mission of spreading justice and the light side: it represented a person tying themself down to one attachment, rather than opening themself up to the galaxy as a whole. Bound only to the Force and the Jedi Temple, relationships to a Jedi needed to be carefully handled in the name of their service to the Force.[31] Close friendships still existed and were valued,[9] but a Jedi needed to understand their friends could be lost and need to be let go of at any given time.[33]