# Landonis Balthazar Calrissian

Landonis Balthazar Calrissian, otherwise known as Lando Calrissian, was a human smuggler, gambler, and entrepreneur who became Baron Administrator of Cloud City and, later, a general in the Rebel Alliance. Born on Socorro, he was the owner of the Millennium Falcon before losing it to Han Solo in a game of sabacc on Numidian Prime. Afterward, Calrissian put an end to his days as a smuggler and became an entrepreneur, setting up a small mining operation on the planet Lothal before eventually becoming the leader of Cloud City in the skies of the planet Bespin.

During the Galactic Civil War, Darth Vader arrived on Cloud City to lay a trap for his son, Luke Skywalker. As part of the trap, the Dark Lord of the Sith forced Calrissian into tricking a group of Rebels, including Solo and Princess Leia Organa, leading them to Vader himself. Though Vader promised to leave Cloud City without an Imperial presence, Calrissian felt the deal had been altered to the point where he could no longer tolerate it. Calrissian alerted his citizens to the Galactic Empire's presence and impending occupation and ordered an evacuation. He helped the Rebels try to rescue Solo, who had been frozen in carbonite, from Boba Fett, but the bounty hunter escaped.

Calrissian joined the Rebel Alliance and set out to find Solo. After locating him in the palace of Jabba the Hutt on Tatooine, Calrissian aided in his rescue. The Rebels returned to the fleet, and Calrissian became a general, volunteering to lead the assault on the DS-2 Death Star II Mobile Battle Station during the Battle of Endor. During the battle, he piloted the Millennium Falcon into the battle station's core, firing the shot which destroyed it.

In the years of peace after the Empire's dissolution, Calrissian started a family and fathered a daughter named Kadara Calrissian. However, while she was only an infant, his daughter was kidnapped by the First Order. Six years later, he embarked on a quest to the desert planet of Pasaana with Luke Skywalker to find answers about the growing darkness in the Force, but failed to uncover anything. Seeking to bury the pain of those memories, Calrissian settled on Pasaana and led a solitary lifestyle where he was known as the "Hermit" to the Aki-Aki of the Lurch Canyon. He lived alone for some years while keeping contact with the Solo family and was later asked by Organa's Resistance for his aid in the war against the First Order.

In 35 ABY, Lando helped the Resistance and reunited with his old friend, Chewbacca. Calrissian played one more role in the fight for galactic freedom as he brought an assembled Citizens' Fleet to reinforce the Resistance at the battle at Exegol, from which the Resistance emerged victorious.

A member of the tragic Calrissian family,[14] Landonis[8] Balthazar[3] Calrissian, otherwise known as "Lando" Calrissian, was born on the planet Socorro.[19] During his youth, he became a smuggler and a gambler, excelling in a card game known as sabacc. He traveled throughout the galaxy and piloted a freighter called the Millennium Falcon,[4] which he won through a game of sabacc at[20] the gas giant[21] Bespin.[20] The ship saved his life on numerous occasions.[6] Sometime before 10 BBY, Lando won a subtropical moon in the Oseon Belt during a game of sabacc. Lando also developed a partnership with L3-37, a custom self-made piloting droid.[8]

During his time with L3, Lando nearly lost her to a Hutt after making a bad bet in a game of sabacc on Gonda.[22] At one point, Calrissian was involved in an incident with a Dawinian and their companion.[23] He also came to meet the Tonnika sisters, even showing Brea Tonnika how to work the controls on the Falcon. At another point, Brea and Senni Tonnika made a mess of the room they were staying in on[24] the city-world of[25] Coruscant in order to get back at Calrissian.[24] At some point, Calrissian met a droid mechanic who worked on[26] the Mid Rim planet[3] Kijimi, with that mechanic coming to owe Calrissian a favor.[26]

Sometime prior to the Battle of Yavin, Lando and L3-37 were ambushed in the Halthor sector when an Imperial interdictor dropped out from hyperspace. As a result of the ambush, Calrissian lost a majority of his shipment of walkers that he acquired from an Er'Kit arms dealer in the Noonian sector.[18] Lando also had dealings with Crimson Dawn on Felucia. He completed his debt to Crimson Dawn and its leader, Dryden Vos.[8] At another point, Calrissian visited Pantora and successfully convinced Imperial Vice Grand Administrator Prita Sven to let him leave the planet with a freighter full of poached forlyn carcasses.[9]

Calrissian and L3-37 at some point was arrested for smuggling and was sent to the planet Hynestia. Lando and L3 was asked by Queen Forsythia Jin of Hynestia to deliver an artifact to the Galactic Empire for making up for a gherlian fur failed delivery. Princess Rinetta Gan knew about the real purpose of the artifact from her teacher Zel Gris. It was supposed to function as an energy source and make up for the lack of sunlight on the planet Livno III. Without it, Livno III would fall to ruin and destruction. Rinetta tried to force Calrissian and L3 to comply with her new orders after sneaking onto the Millennium Falcon as a stowaway. Her plan failed as Calrissian traveled to Neral's moon to settle a debt with Ne'eda Frip. When the exchange went wrong and escaped but he was captured by Queen Forsythia again. Queen Forsythia put Calrissian and L3 in jail. Rinetta freed Calrissian and L3 again. She wanted them to help her return the artifact to Livno III. They all escaped Hynestia and had to defeat Ne'eda's starships before making the jump to Livno III. After returning the artifact to Livno III, they put the princess Rinetta back to Hynestia. Queen Forsythia pardoned Calrissian and L3 afterwards.[22]

Calrissian later smuggled weapons to Petrusia after the Empire seized control of it. Following that operation, Calrissian considered turning the Falcon into a casino, despite L3's reservations about it. He also started to write the Calrissian Chronicles to show the galaxy his prodigiousness. Calrissian and L3 took the Falcon to Batuv where he tried to by a new cape from Borkus until he met the bartender Kristiss. She told Calrissian of her people's plight and status as slaves at the Imperial outpost on Kullgroon. Kristiss asked for his help in arming her people for 1,000 credits up front. Despite his reservations, Calrissian decided to speak with her and have a drink with her.[27]