# Leia Skywalker Organa Solo

Leia Skywalker Organa Solo was a Force-sensitive human Alderaanian female politician, Jedi, and military leader who served in the Alliance to Restore the Republic during the Imperial Era and the New Republic and Resistance in the subsequent New Republic Era. Shortly after birth on Polis Massa, she was adopted into the House of Organa—the Alderaanian royal family—and was raised as Princess Leia Organa of Alderaan, a planet in the Core Worlds known for its dedication to pacifism. The princess was raised as the daughter of Senator Bail Prestor Organa and his wife, Queen Breha Organa, making her the heir to the Alderaanian monarchy. Instilled with the values of her adopted homeworld, Organa devoted her life to the restoration of democracy by opposing authoritarian regimes, such as the Galactic Empire and the First Order.

Born in 19 BBY as Leia Amidala Skywalker, she was the daughter of the Jedi Knight Anakin Skywalker and Senator Padmé Amidala of Naboo. Her birth occurred in the aftermath of the Clone Wars, which saw the Jedi Order purged and the Galactic Republic reorganized into the Galactic Empire. With her mother's death in childbirth and her father's fall to the dark side of the Force, Leia and her twin brother, Luke, were separated to keep them hidden from the hands of her father and the Emperor. As the adopted daughter of a politician, Leia grew up peacefully—albeit secluded—on Alderaan until she was kidnapped by mercenaries led by Vect Nokru—under the orders of the Third Sister, a member of the Inquisitorius—in 9 BBY. Since he had fought alongside her adoptive father in the Clone Wars, Jedi Master Obi-Wan Kenobi went to Leia's rescue on Daiyu, and, after evading the Empire's hand on Mapuzo and Jabiim, Leia was brought back to Alderaan. Years later, Leia succeeded Bail by representing their homeworld in the Imperial Senate, though secretly she supported the Rebellion. During the Galactic Civil War, however, Alderaan was destroyed along with its inhabitants and the royal family by the Empire's DS-1 Death Star Mobile Battle Station, causing Organa to openly fight the New Order as one of the Rebel Alliance’s substantial heroes.

In the aftermath of the Battle of Endor, Organa married the Corellian smuggler Han Solo and learned the Jedi arts as her brother's apprentice until giving birth to her son, Ben Solo, on the day of the Empire's capitulation in 5 ABY. Her personal and political life suffered in the years that followed, with Ben turning to the dark side like his grandfather before him, adopting the persona of Kylo Ren, and the Galactic Senate sidelining Organa's career. Adopting the military rank of general, she led the Resistance and their efforts to oppose the rising First Order during the Cold War while seeking to make amends with Ben in hopes that her son will return to the light side of the Force like her father during the Battle of Endor. Despite her efforts, the First Order succeeded in destroying the New Republic, and Organa's husband died at the hands of their estranged son in 34 ABY. Organa continued to lead the Resistance during the war against the First Order, all the while passing on her Jedi training onto Rey—a Force-sensitive scavenger from Jakku and Luke’s apprentice.

As her health declined, Organa used her remaining strength to reach her son, calling him back to the light side. Following her death on Ajan Kloss in 35 ABY, her final actions inspired Rey and the Resistance to defeat the forces of the reborn Darth Sidious's Sith Eternal on Exegol and spark an uprising against the First Order across the galaxy. The heir to three inheritances, Leia Skywalker Organa Solo's legacy passed on to the Jedi Rey Skywalker, the military leader Poe Dameron of the Resistance, and Ben Solo, her only child, who ultimately returned to the light before sacrificing his life for Rey and becoming one with the Force to join his mother and the Skywalker family.

Towards the end of the Clone Wars,[26] a galactic conflict fought between the Galactic Republic and the Confederacy of Independent Systems that was engineered by the Sith Lord Darth Sidious,[12] Jedi Master Yoda set out on a journey to discover the secrets of immortality. His journey took him to Moraband, the ancient Sith homeworld, where he faced visions of the future. At the end of his journey, the Force Priestess, Serenity, who had guided his journey, told him that there was another Skywalker, and Yoda heard his voice from the future say so as well.[26] These events not only alluded to the potential he would sense in Leia,[27] but to what Yoda would tell her twin brother, Luke, about Leia in his last words, before his death.[11]

Leia Amidala Skywalker[28] was born on the asteroid of Polis Massa[12] two days after the end of the Clone Wars and the newly established Galactic Empire's purge of the Jedi Order.[2] She and her twin brother, Luke, who was born shortly before her, were the children of Republic Senator Padmé Amidala, who died shortly after the births, and Jedi Knight Anakin Skywalker, who had recently fallen to the dark side of the Force.[12] She was left with a lasting impression of images and feelings of her mother that her brother did not: that their mother was "very beautiful, kind, but sad."[11] Though Leia was unsure if she had really seen her mother or if she had just invented the memories to fill the hole in her life.[29]

Of the two Skywalker children, Yoda felt that Leia was more suited to be a Jedi, owing to her natural strength, will, and clarity (as opposed to her brother, who was impetuous, headstrong, unruly, and inattentive), wanting very much to train her.[27] However, to protect the children from the Empire, Darth Sidious, who ruled the Empire as Galactic Emperor Palpatine, and the now–Sith Lord Darth Vader, Senator Bail Prestor Organa agreed to adopt the infant Leia together with his wife, Queen Breha of Alderaan, while Obi-Wan Kenobi personally watched over Luke, who would live with their father's stepbrother Owen Lars and his wife Beru, on the planet Tatooine.[12]

Through adoption, Leia Amidala Skywalker became Leia Organa, formally becoming heiress of the Royal Family of Alderaan[28] through the Name Day ceremony.[14] Although it was common knowledge that she was adopted,[30] and everyone assumed that she was just another of the many, many children left orphaned by the Clone Wars,[29] she remained unaware of her biological parents' fates.[12] When Leia was an infant, she was mesmerized by the fish in an aquarium while her adoptive father read secret files concerning the former Jedi Padawan Ahsoka Tano's presence on the agrarian moon of Raada. Bail later carried her after reading the files.[31] On one occasion when Leia was a toddler she escaped from her bath and ran wet and naked into the formal dining room interrupting a diplomatic dinner and causing WA-2V to chase after her.[14]

Leia was eventually told that her birth father had died during one of the last battles of the Clone Wars and that her birth mother had been injured and only lived long enough to give birth to her. However, Leia had no interest in her birth parents seeing her adoptive parents as the only family she ever needed. Often when Leia went to sleep her parents would tell her that they had waited a long time for a child, as part of the story about when her father had come home from some "mysterious mission" to surprise her mother with a baby girl in her arms.[14]

As a small child, Leia believed that the glowing coming from inside her mother's chest was a bouquet of blooming candlewick flowers. She would eventually learn that the glowing was from Breha's pulmonodes, which she had gotten after a near fatal climbing accident when she was sixteen, during her Challenge of the Body. She told Leia that she had chosen not to cover them up with skin through bacta sessions, as they were proof that she had survived. Leia would eventually go on to meet other people with the same cybernetics.[14]