# Obi-Wan Kenobi

Obi-Wan Kenobi was a legendary Force-sensitive human male Jedi Master who served on the Jedi High Council during the final years of the Republic Era. As a High Jedi General, Kenobi served in the Grand Army of the Republic that fought against the Separatist Droid Army during the Clone Wars, and was nicknamed "the Negotiator." Kenobi, however, was forced into exile as a result of the Great Jedi Purge initiated by the Republic's own clone troopers when Republic Supreme Chancellor, secretly Darth Sidious, implemented Order 66. As a mentor, Kenobi was responsible for training two members of the Skywalker family, Anakin and Luke Skywalker, both of whom served in turn as his Padawan in the ways of the Force.

Kenobi was born on the planet Stewjon in 57 BBY. He was Force-sensitive, and therefore taken from his family and inducted into the Jedi Order as a child. Raised in the Jedi Grand Temple on the planet Coruscant, Kenobi was assigned to Jedi Master Qui-Gon Jinn. In 32 BBY, Kenobi attained the rank of Jedi Knight by defeating the Sith Lord Darth Maul during the Invasion of Naboo. He also chose to train Anakin Skywalker—the prophesied Chosen One who was destined to destroy the Sith and restore balance to the Force—having promised Jinn who died in the lightsaber duel against Maul.

With the advent of the Clone Wars in 22 BBY, Kenobi adopted the military rank of High Jedi General in the Grand Army of the Galactic Republic, and was given command of the Open Circle Fleet, the Third Systems Army, and the 7th Sky Corps. Clone Marshal Commander Cody served as his second-in-command throughout the galaxy-wide conflict, with their forces achieving multiple victories over the Confederacy of Independent Systems. In the midst of the war, his old enemy Maul re-emerged into galactic affairs, bent on revenge against Kenobi for his debilitating defeat decades prior. Though they clashed in heated duels on multiple occasions, Maul failed to end Kenobi's life or cripple his spirit, despite murdering his former love, Satine Kryze, Duchess of Mandalore.

In 19 BBY, Kenobi killed the Separatist Supreme Martial Commander, General Grievous, during the Battle of Utapau, effectively ending the Clone Wars. He later survived the initial onslaught of the Great Jedi Purge against the Jedi Order, which resulted from the machinations of the Sith Lord Darth Sidious. After discovering that Skywalker had turned to the dark side of the Force, becoming Sidious' Sith apprentice under the name of Darth Vader, Kenobi defeated his former Padawan on Mustafar and exiled himself to the Outer Rim planet Tatooine as the Galactic Empire rose to power. Adopting a hermit lifestyle as "Ben Kenobi," he watched over Vader's and Senator Padmé Amidala's son, Luke.

Ten years later, Kenobi left exile to rescue Leia Organa, Luke's twin sister, and was pursued by the Empire's Inquisitorius and Vader himself. Later, Kenobi was hunted down once again by Maul, whom he finally slew to protect the young Luke. Kenobi began the boy's Jedi training in 0 BBY, and soon after encountered Vader aboard the first Death Star, where he sacrificed himself to ensure that Luke and his allies escaped from the Sith Lord. In death, Kenobi became one with the Force which allowed him to continue guiding Luke throughout the Galactic Civil War. In 4 ABY, Kenobi reunited with his former student, Anakin Skywalker, who died destroying his Sith Master in order to save his son. Kenobi was remembered as a legendary Jedi Master during the rise of the New Republic; Ben Solo, the son of Luke's twin sister, Princess Leia Organa, was named after Kenobi. Solo's turn to the dark side left Luke disillusioned with the Jedi Order's legacy, and he held Kenobi responsible for Anakin's transformation into Vader. However, Luke's faith would eventually be restored with the aid of Darth Sidious's granddaughter Rey, to whom Kenobi would lend his voice and strength in a final battle and victory against her resurrected ancestor on Exegol in 35 ABY.

Obi-Wan Kenobi was born on the planet Stewjon in 57 BBY.[2] Despite being very young when he left his family, he still had glimpses of his father's hands, his mother's shawl and he remembered a baby he believed to be his brother although he barely remembered him.[10]

When Kenobi was discovered to be Force-sensitive, he was taken from his homeworld to the Jedi Temple on the Core Worlds planet Coruscant to be trained as a Jedi[5] within the first six months of his life.[1][5] In the Jedi crèche he was placed with other Jedi younglings[18] in the Kybuck Clan during his early years, including his friends Gehren[12] and Prie.[18] Kenobi received basic Initiate training alongside his peers in the Jedi Order's Temple[11] and began training in several simple Force techniques by the age of three[18] in 54 BBY.[19]

Kenobi studied in the ways of the Force[1] and Jedi traditions[20] under Grand Master Yoda,[1] eventually coming to respect him and the Jedi Council greatly.[18] He also received instruction in the art of lightsaber combat from Jedi Master Cin Drallig[21] in the basic lightsaber forms and techniques.[18] At some point before he was selected as a Padawan, Kenobi attended a class centered around meditation.[11] Unlike how he acted as he got older,[22] Kenobi, during his days as a youngling, gained a reputation for breaking rules and having a rebellious nature,[18] resulting in very few Masters who were willing to train the boy as their Padawan.[22] To curb Kenobi's behavior, Yoda searched for a teacher for Kenobi that had unorthodox methods, which would mold the student into rebelling by being dutiful.[18]

Around 44 BBY,[23] Jedi Master Qui-Gon Jinn chose Kenobi as his Padawan learner when he was thirteen years old. During his apprenticeship he became friends with Jape, a fellow Padawan who he kept correspondence with, and also maintained contact with crèche-mate Prie[18] and the Mon Calamari Bant Eerin.[24] In their first months together, Jinn attempted to adapt his teaching methods to suit Kenobi's strengths, but felt he failed to do so adequately.[18] At some point during his training, Kenobi constructed his first lightsaber, modeled after Jinn's lightsaber hilt style and his own personality.[25] As the pair struggled to establish a workable affinity, the Master continued to train his Padawan in the basic cadences of lightsaber combat, preventing him from picking a specialty.[18] Jinn was proud of his apprentice's skills, and sparred with him in training sessions[11] while at the Temple between missions. Kenobi, in turn, spent a significant amount of time in the training dojos to hone the techniques taught to him.[18]

In their lessons, Jinn taught Kenobi that there was a strength and nobility in restraint.[26] As time passed, Kenobi's demeanor shifted to become more serious and respectful of the Council, in contrast to[18] the maverick[27] Jinn's usual way of approaching situations based on his instincts in the present,[18] even if that meant going against the Council's wishes.[14] Both carried differing philosophies on focusing on the future versus the present, and interpreted the Force in varying ways. Despite their differences, Kenobi strived to be a good student, and supported his Master's hobbies regarding ancient Jedi prophecy research. To Kenobi's chagrin, the majority of his free time in the Temple was consumed by gathering information from the Jedi Archives and the holocron of prophecy under the watchful eye of the Jedi Master librarian Jocasta Nu. Over time, he learned the language Old Alderaanian, which many of the holocron's prophecies were written in. As an escape from the workload, Kenobi played rounds of[18] the game[5] dejarik in the lower levels of Coruscant in the evenings after finishing his Master's research requests.[18]