# R2-D2

R2-D2, pronounced Artoo-Deetoo and often referred to as R2 (Artoo), was an R2-series astromech droid manufactured by Industrial Automaton with masculine programming. A smart, spunky droid who served a multitude of leaders, R2-D2 was never given a full memory wipe nor did he ever receive new programming, with these factors resulting in an adventurous and independent attitude. Often finding himself in pivotal moments in galactic history, his bravery and ingenuity saved the galaxy on numerous occasions.

Beginning his service in the employ of Queen Amidala of Naboo, R2-D2 wound up serving Jedi Knight Anakin Skywalker during the waning years of the Galactic Republic, often accompanied by the protocol droid C-3PO in many adventures throughout the Clone Wars. After Skywalker turned to the dark side of the Force, the droid served Senator Bail Organa for a time in the Imperial Senate. Nineteen years following the purge of the Galactic Republic, R2-D2 played a pivotal role in helping the Rebel Alliance destroy the Empire's Death Star superweapon. He carried technical readouts vital to its destruction. Serving Jedi Knight Luke Skywalker, the son of his two former masters throughout the Galactic Civil War, he participated in both the Battles of Hoth and Endor, and witnessed the successful destruction of the Empire's second Death Star four years after the first one was demolished.

In the subsequent thirty years, R2 accompanied Luke Skywalker until the undoing of his attempted resurrection of the Jedi Order in 28 ABY. Following Luke's disappearance, R2 entered a self-imposed low power mode as newer droid models started to out-compute the aging astromech. Despite this, his celebrated role in the Rebellion protected him from the usual recycling procedure of many old droids, allowing him a semi-retirement in the Resistance as he pored over several decades of uninterrupted data, and "dreamed" of his greatest adventures.

Following his reawakening after the Battle of Starkiller Base, R2 went on to accompany the Force-sensitive scavenger Rey on her journey to train under Luke Skywalker on Ahch-To, the planet of the First Jedi Temple, where the droid was reunited with his old master. R2-D2 continued to aid the Resistance alongside his longtime counterpart C-3PO throughout the First Order-Resistance War, culminating in a decisive victory at the Battle of Exegol, in which he was an active participant in the role of copilot for General Poe Dameron.

R2-D2 was built around prior or during 32 BBY.[2] He was one of several astromech droids on Queen Padmé Amidala's Naboo Royal Starship during the invasion of Naboo by the Trade Federation that year. The ship was used by Queen Amidala and her entourage in an attempt to pass the blockade and escape the planet. Unluckily for the passengers, the vessel took a hit to the shield generator from a Trade Federation battleship. The four astromechs were sent out to repair the ship, but only R2-D2 survived — the rest were pulverized by stray blaster fire. R2-D2 was able to bring the shields online by bypassing the main power drive, allowing the ship to narrowly escape into hyperspace.[19]

As the ship traveled to Tatooine, R2-D2 was taken before Sabé, the Queen's decoy in the guise of Amidala, where he was commended for his actions. The ship landed on Tatooine without any further incidents, although the voyage fried the hyperdrive. R2-D2 accompanied Jedi Master Qui-Gon Jinn, Gungan exile Jar Jar Binks, and Padmé, the queen in disguise, to the city of Mos Espa to find a replacement. In the junk shop of the Toydarian merchant Watto they found they could not afford a replacement hyperdrive and later took shelter from a sandstorm in the home of Watto's slaves, a boy named Anakin Skywalker, and his mother, Shmi.[19]

At the Skywalker home, R2-D2 met C-3PO, a protocol droid that Anakin had built. The two bonded as they worked on Anakin's personal podracer. R2-D2 and C-3PO cheered for Anakin during the Boonta Eve Classic, where the boy would win his freedom, along with enough money to buy a new hyperdrive. R2-D2 accompanied the group to Coruscant, and from there back to Naboo. As Queen Amidala led an attempt to liberate the planet, R2-D2 nestled into an N-1 starfighter. Young Anakin, being ordered to hide in the cockpit by Qui-Gon Jinn, accidentally launched the fighter and the two flew into battle, destroyed the Droid Control Ship and shut down the droid armies, winning the battle and liberating Naboo. R2-D2 and his allies later attended a victory parade in Theed, though they were unable to be joined by Jinn, as he had been killed by the Sith Lord Darth Maul during the battle. Because of this, Skywalker became the Padawan learner to Obi-Wan Kenobi, who had been Jinn's apprentice before the Jedi Master's death.[19]

Four years later, as Amidala's term ended, and she accepted a position in the Galactic Senate, R2-D2 accompanied her retinue to Coruscant on the orders of the Naboo's new queen, Réillata. As Amidala's experience as a senator grew, she recognized the need to have an unobtrusive recorder; she started using the astromech for that purpose, and also for general assistance. During the Senate's break, Amidala returned to Naboo with her retinue and R2-D2, who accompanied her to her family home. There, R2-D2 was called over by Amidala to help her father Ruwee Naberrie build a greenhouse, only for the astromech droid to instead become enamored by Amidala's newborn niece, Ryoo Naberrie. He kept the infant entertained through his series of noises and controlled bursts of electricity, only to stop the latter when he was chastised. As he played with Ryoo in a safer way, Amidala told her sister and Ryoo's mother Sola about why R2-D2 had joined her retinue, after which Sola told the small droid that, while he needed given further direction on the matter, he worked well as a babysitter. R2-D2 responded with a chirping noise before moving his attention back to Ryoo.[31]

In 26 BBY,[32] Jedi Grand Master Yoda, Jedi Master Mace Windu, and Jedi Master Bant Eerin launched a test for Kenobi and Skywalker by staging a fake kidnapping of Yoda. After traveling to the Wheel space station, the two Jedi took a comlink from Windu, who was disguised as the mobster Grynask Sanberge, back to their shuttle. When Skywalker was decrypting the comlink, he wished R2-D2 was with him, as he felt the droid friend he had met[33] during the Naboo Crisis[19] would have quickly finished the work.[33]

R2-D2 accompanied Amidala to Coruscant prior to the senate's vote on the Military Creation Act. After an assassination attempt on Amidala took the life of her handmaiden and decoy, Cordé, Obi-Wan Kenobi and Anakin Skywalker were assigned to be her Jedi protectors. That night, another assassination attempt was carried out. A pair of kouhuns narrowly missed killing Amidala and although one assassin, Zam Wesell, was neutralized, another escaped.[16]