# Alliance to Restore the Republic

The Alliance to Restore the Republic (2 BBY–4 ABY), commonly known as the Rebel Alliance, Alliance, and the Rebellion, was a resistance movement to oppose the rule of the Galactic Empire and to restore the Galactic Republic. The Alliance was publicly and formally declared with the Declaration of the Rebel Alliance by Senator Mon Mothma, which brought numerous rebel cells together as a common force opposed to the Empire. Indeed, the concept of a "Rebel Alliance" had its roots in smaller movements that had worked to unite disconnected cells, such as a movement secretly led by fellow Senator Bail Prestor Organa and a rebel network formed by revolutionary Luthen Rael, who received funding and aid from Mothma. Such early groups and the eventual Alliance came together from a number of unrelated rebel cells, including the crew of the Ghost and the Phoenix Cell. The Atrivis Resistance Group was one of the first cells to join what Mothma began calling "the Alliance" before the formal formation of the Alliance to Restore the Republic.

The Alliance and the cells it united were born from the overall discontent within the Empire of those who wished the Galactic Republic restored. Its efforts were by supportive senators in the Imperial Senate such as Mothma, Organa, and later, his daughter Leia Organa. Its members were citizens of the Empire or defectors from the Imperial Military, such as Jan Dodonna, Ryder Azadi, and Wedge Antilles. Founded and united by Organa and Ahsoka Tano, the early rebels were assisted by surviving Jedi, such as Kanan Jarrus, and his Padawan, Ezra Bridger. Clone Wars veterans, such as Captain Rex also assisted in the initial movement.

As opposed to waging all-out war, the Alliance waged an insurgency against the Empire, establishing small bases across the galaxy instead of controlling an entire planet. When the Alliance stole the plans for the Empire's ultimate weapon, the Death Star, and destroyed the space station in the Battle of Yavin with the help of Luke Skywalker, the tide of the war began to turn, and the Rebel threat began to prove a severe thorn in the Empire's side. The Rebellion continued to engage in battles with the Empire in the Galactic Civil War. However, under the command of Darth Vader, the Imperial forces succeeded in defeating the Alliance on Hoth, forcing the Alliance to scatter its forces in order to survive.

Eventually, the Alliance prevailed against the Empire and critically damaged it by launching an attack against the second Death Star during its construction in what would become the Battle of Endor. Not only did the Alliance manage to destroy the battle station, but the Imperial Navy was severely crippled by the loss of one of its Super Star Destroyers, and Luke Skywalker redeemed his father, Darth Vader, who killed Emperor Sheev Palpatine, before dying himself in the battle.

The Alliance was soon reorganized into the fledgling New Republic, restoring the Old Republic and continued the rebellion against the shattered Empire, lasting until the Battle of Jakku one year after Endor, forcing the Galactic Empire to end the war and finally overthrowing it by the signing of the Galactic Concordance.

While the Alliance to Restore the Republic was a resistance movement opposed to the tyranny of the Galactic Empire and its New Order, its roots predated the actual birth of the Empire, when the Galactic Republic was in its last years of existence. During the Clone Wars, a conflict that pitted the Republic against the Confederacy of Independent Systems,[20] the Jedi Order helped create resistance units on Separatist-held worlds as part of a plan proposed by Jedi Knight Anakin Skywalker, one example being the Onderon rebels.[19] However, it was not for many more years that such rebel cells would coalesce into a single Rebellion with a centralized leadership.[11]

Also during the Clone Wars, Supreme Chancellor Sheev Palpatine had managed to obtain many emergency powers from the Galactic Senate, which caused certain members of the Chancellor's own Loyalist Committee, including Bail Prestor Organa of Alderaan, Padmé Amidala of Naboo,[22] and Mon Mothma of Chandrila,[23] to start to complain about the chief of state's conduct.[22] The discontented senatorial representatives ended up forming the Delegation of 2,000. They signed the Petition of 2,000, a document that formally expressed its signatories' concerns with Palpatine's rule and called for him to relinquish his emergency powers as soon as possible. Senator Meena Tills of Mon Cala was among the petitioners.[24]

Shortly thereafter, the Clone Wars was brought to an end. Far from relinquishing his dictatorial status, Chancellor Palpatine unilaterally abolished the Republic in front of the whole Senate and anointed himself the Galactic Emperor, thus transforming the democratic government into an authoritarian regime, the Galactic Empire. Unbeknownst to most of the galactic community, the self-promoted Emperor Palpatine was in fact the Sith Lord Darth Sidious, who had masterminded the Clone Wars so that he could gain power and overthrow the Republic. The Emperor immediately started to subvert democracy in the galaxy and declared the peacekeeping Jedi Knights enemies of the state.[21] In the immediate aftermath of the Clone Wars and Senator Amidala's death at the hands of her husband, Darth Vader — the identity adopted by Anakin Skywalker when he became Sidious's Sith apprentice — Senators Organa and Mothma started working in secret to overthrow the Empire.[11]

In the absence of any major opposition, the Galactic Empire thrived during the early days of Palpatine's reign, amassing a vast military and using it to instill fear in the civilian population,[26] yet public opinion[27] and the supposed power of the Imperial Senate remained vital[28] until Palpatine could fully cement his power.[29] All the same, the reformed Senate, being even less effective than it was during the last years of the Republic, did nothing to restrain that massive military expansion[26] as its senators, in time, gave into Palpatine's demands time and time again.[30] Meanwhile, in the deepest secrecy, the Empire worked on the Death Star, a moon-sized battle station capable of destroying entire planets.[26]

Senators Mon Mothma and Bail Prestor Organa attempted to re-assert the power of the Senate through the Imperial Rebirth Act[31] around 19 BBY.[32] While the act would pass, Palpatine claimed he had the authority to veto portions of it, curtailing whatever effectiveness it might have had. Mothma responded to the news by threating a prolonged political struggle, but Grand Vizier Mas Amedda explained all the ways Palpatine had rigged the political game in his favor and forced Mothma to admit she was not yet ready to wage a war against Palpatine, who had both the love of the populous and the means to win such a struggle. In the wake of the act's failure, Mothma and Organa would meet with the Partisan leader Saw Gerrera and established something of an unofficial alliance with the rebel: deciding to work together to overthrow Palpatine, Gerrera promised to provide the basis of a rebel army, Organa set himself and Alderaan up as their alliance's ideological heart, and Mothma, in what she realized was the weakest contribution of the three, promised to continue building up coalitions to oppose the Emperor as their political heart.[31]