# Sith

The Sith, also referred to as the Sith Order, was an ancient religious order of Force-wielders devoted to the dark side of the Force. Driven by their emotions, including hate, anger, and greed, the Sith were deceptive and obsessed with gaining power no matter the cost. The order had many forms until it reached the apex of its power under Darth Sidious, the Dark Lord of the Sith who achieved his order's goal of galactic conquest after a millennium of plotting. Within a generation, however, the deaths of Darth Sidious and Darth Vader marked the end of the Sith Lords. Though the Sith went extinct, they still had a powerful legacy, and many continued to follow their teachings. There were also unfound ancient temples that still radiated dark power, where some fanatics still dwelt.

Thousands of years before the Clone Wars, the Jedi Order was fractured by a schism that began when a rogue Jedi and his followers turned away from the light side of the Force, believing the dark side was the path to true power. Having relocated to the planet Korriban in the Outer Rim Territories, their movement ultimately evolved into the Sith Order, resulting in a war between the former brothers and sisters in the Force as the Jedi Knights rallied to the defense of the Old Republic. Although the Sith were driven off of the Core World Coruscant by 5000 BBY, centuries of conflict ensued between the two orders, culminating in the Old Republic's collapse. Undermined by constant infighting and ruined by the last war against the Jedi, the Sith were rendered all but extinct with the exception of one; Darth Bane survived the ancient order's destruction and passed his knowledge to a single apprentice, Darth Zannah, before being entombed on Korriban, which became known as Moraband. Henceforth, the Sith was governed by the Rule of Two, a new philosophy dictating that only two Sith Lords—a Sith Master and a Sith apprentice—could exist at any given time. As a result, the Sith were all but forgotten while the Jedi focused their efforts on preserving the new age of peace under the modern Galactic Republic.

The Sith remained in hiding for a millennium until the rise of Darth Sidious and Darth Maul in 32 BBY. Sidious, trained by Darth Plagueis, hid in plain sight as Senator Sheev Palpatine of Naboo. Orchestrating the blockade and invasion of his homeworld by the Trade Federation, Sidious maneuvered the Galactic Senate into electing him to the office of Supreme Chancellor. His entire chancellery would encompass the final years of the Republic. Over the next decade Sidious sowed the seeds of discontent within the galactic populace with the help of his new apprentice, the former Jedi Master Count Dooku, who adopted the name of Darth Tyranus and became the public face of the Independent Movement for Self-Determination. The Separatist Crisis culminated in the formation of the Confederacy of Independent Systems and the creation of the Separatist Droid Army which, in turn, compelled the Senate to support the establishment of the Grand Army of the Republic. Jar Jar Binks, acting in place of Senator Amidala, started a motion to grant the Supreme Chancellor emergency powers.

The Clone Wars began with the First Battle of Geonosis in 22 BBY, after which entire armies of battle droids and clone troopers deployed across the galaxy, making war and devastation commonplace for the first time since the formation of the Republic. In the final months of the Clone Wars, Sidious sacrificed and betrayed Tyranus as part of his plot to turn Anakin Skywalker, the Jedi Order's prophesied Chosen One, to the dark side. Playing on Skywalker's fear of losing his secret wife, Senator Padmé Amidala, Palpatine revealed his deception and true identity, while claiming that the dark side was the path to immortality. Members of the Jedi High Council, having learned from Skywalker's report that the chancellor was, in fact, a Sith Lord, attempted to arrest Palpatine, but the chancellor resisted. Torn between his faith in the Jedi and the fate he foresaw for his wife, Skywalker ultimately chose the Sith by betraying Mace Windu, allowing Sidious to kill the Jedi Order's great champion.

Using the incident in the chancellor's office to frame the Jedi Order for treason, Sidious declared Order 66 was in effect, marking all Jedi as enemies of the state. The clone troopers' programming turned them against their Jedi Generals, who were betrayed and executed across the galaxy. With the majority of the order falling victim to the Great Jedi Purge, Sidious announced the creation of a new regime, transforming the Republic into the First Galactic Empire in 19 BBY. With the former Anakin Skywalker, renamed Darth Vader, at his side, the self-proclaimed Galactic Emperor's rise to power was complete, and the Sith were restored to dominance after centuries of plotting.

The Sith's control of the galaxy remained relatively unchallenged for a generation until the birth of the Alliance to Restore the Republic which, in turn, led to the Galactic Civil War in 0 BBY. The Emperor, having felt a disturbance in the Force, discovered that his apprentice's long lost son, Luke Skywalker, was training to become a Jedi. Aware of the potential Luke inherited from his father, the Emperor foresaw the possibility of his own destruction but resolved to turn the young man to the dark side as he did with Vader. During the Battle of Endor in 4 ABY, the Emperor forced father and son into a duel, which ended with Luke disarming Vader. The Emperor subsequently betrayed Vader by ordering Luke to finish him off and be Sidious's apprentice, but the young Jedi Knight refused. Knowing he had lost Luke to the Jedi, the Emperor proceeded to torture Luke with torrents of Force lightning. At that moment, Vader, overwhelmed by his son's compassion for him, chose to save Luke by killing his master.

The death of the now redeemed Anakin Skywalker, marked the extinction of the Sith, who then succumbed to his injuries—bringing balance to the Force. Yet while the ancient Chosen One prophecy foretold the Sith's demise, it never predicted the end of the dark side. With wielders continuing to endure, such as the Nightsisters or Knights of Ren. After the First Order rise from the Unknown Regions, the enigmatic darksider Supreme Leader Snoke throne was succeeded by Kylo Ren—nephew of Jedi Master Skywalker during the war against the Resistance. Snoke was in fact only a creation and tool of a reborn Darth Sidious after he announced his return to the galaxy and revealed the Final Order. The clone emperor and his cults—the Sith Eternal emergence from hiding resulted in a desperate final battle against the him which saw the Jedi Rey and a redeemed Ben Solo to destroy Sidious, permanently preventing the rebirth of the Sith.

The Sith focused on primal emotions like anger and pain in order to gain power from the dark side of the Force. The Code of the Sith was the antithesis of the Jedi Code, although like its counterpart, it governed the actions and beliefs of the Sith. The Sith code insisted on the importance of passion and the rejection of peace.[27]

The Sith wore clothing that obscured their identity while in hiding.[38] They used the term "dark side" because they were secretive. The Sith felt it was easier to impose order if they kept their identities and knowledge a secret or, as Lona Aphra put it, "hidden—in the dark."[47] The hex charm was a traditional symbol of the Sith.[26] Jedi Master Zallah Macri maintained that, in the abstract, the Sith Order's ideals may have seemed "good" to a Jedi, but the finer details and their actions painted a clearer picture for what they truly stood for.[48] Indeed, many who joined the Sith[24] or related dark side groups tried to rationalize their actions at first[49] before being fully consumed by the dark side.[24]

The Doctrine of the Dyad arose from the concept of a Force dyad. A dyad was a powerful Force-bond connecting two Force-sensitives; the bond transcended their physical beings and combined them into one presence in the Force. The beings in a dyad possessed rare abilities that were unique to their bond, and therefore unattainable to those who lacked a dyadic connection, regardless of their own strength or experience with the Force. Over the generations, the Sith sought in vain to create a dyad through sheer willpower, believing it was the key to achieving the ultimate power of the dark side. The Sith Lord Darth Sidious viewed the dyad as a source of limitless power.[28]