# The Force

The Force was an energy field created by all life that bound everything in the universe together. It was known by a variety of names throughout galactic history. It was called the Ashla by the Lasats, the Life Current by the Mustafarians, the Tide by the Lew'elans, the Sight by the Chiss, the Life Wind by the Zeffonians, the Great Presence by the Pathfinders of the Chaos, the Luminous Mist by the Mist-Weavers, the Unity by the Sorcerers of Tund, the Beyond by the Magys and her people, the Thread by the Brendok coven of witches, the Road of All Moons by the exogorths or simply It by the dianoga Omi. On Metagos it was known as the the Web. The Force was created by life, and therefore it resided in all life forms. It was especially powerful in a select group of individuals who were born with a high concentration of midi-chlorians—microscopic, intelligent lifeforms that formed a symbiotic relationship with and communicated the will of the Force to their host and resided within all living cells. These people were deemed Force-sensitive, and were capable of consciously sensing the Force. With this conscious sense of the Force came the ability to harness it, allowing Force-sensitives to access various Force powers. Unlike organic beings, droids and other artificial constructs existed outside of the Force. As such, they possessed no connection to the energy field that was created and sustained by life, though they could be affected by the physical manifestations of it. Apart from its scientific aspect, the Force was the basis of various religious organizations, who held differing views as to the nature and purpose of the Force. These included the Church of the Force, the Guardians of the Whills, and most notably the Jedi and Sith Orders. In addition, the Lasats believed that the Force was the "spirit" of the galaxy.

The Force as a recorded concept existed for well over twenty-five thousand years. There were two overarching and symbiotic aspects of the Force. The Living Force was the energy of all life, which, in turn, fed into the Cosmic Force—which bound everything together and communicated the will of the Force through the midi-chlorians. The Jedi followed a code of selflessness and service to others; therefore, they adhered to the light side of the Force, one of two methods of using the all-encompassing energy field. The Jedi's adversaries, the Sith, coveted strength and power through the dark side of the Force. Their opposing philosophies led to millennia of cyclical conflict between the two orders, which resulted in both the extinction of the Sith and the near annihilation of the Jedi.

The Force was the energy field that bound the galaxy together.[7] Thus, distance was nothing when compared to the Force, which connected life forms together across the galaxy. Additionally, it was believed nothing was impossible to the Force,[16] which was beyond the power of any man-made machine.[17] Every lifeform in the universe had a place in the Force, even simple bugs.[18] The Force existed in two forms: the Living Force and the Cosmic Force. The Living Force represented the energies of all lifeforms, and those energies were fed into the Cosmic Force, the wellspring from which it sprang,[19] which bound the galaxy together and communicated the will of the Force through midi-chlorians.[20] When a life-form died, they would become "one with the Force" by becoming a part of the Cosmic Force, which then provided power to the Living Force.[21]

Mystics and scholars had long debated the origins of the Force, such as where and when civilizations first became aware of its power, resulting in many answers and none that were considered definitive. Different species had their own names for the Force as well as their own metaphors for how they perceived it and techniques for learning its powers.[7] Though only certain individuals were Force-sensitive by birth, with the level of Force-sensitivity exhibited by even siblings differing even massively at times,[22] the Force resided within all living things.[23] As such, Ahsoka Tano stated that anyone, with enough time and focus, could learn to harness the Force. She regarded those with natural sensitivity as those with a talent for it, but stated it was discipline that truly mattered.[24] Force-sensitives could feel a "disturbance in the Force" whenever there was a great loss of life.[25] The Force could be extracted from living beings.[23]

Force-sensitive children without training were often skilled with one aspect of the Force instead of many.[26] Alternatively, a being's Force-sensitivity might remain totally dormant during a portion of their childhood; speaking of the Little Utalir, Yana Ro pondered if her Force-sensitivity would develop with age or if it would remain dormant forever. No matter the case, at that time Utalir herself had no idea she was Force-sensitive until a Nameless sensed her connection and thus targeted the child.[22]

When asked why the Force wasn't simple "magic" by Princess Xiri A'lbaran, Jedi Knight Gella Nattai described the Force as existing everywhere and being everything, further explaining it was vital to the continual flow of life.[15] Indeed, the Sunset Prayer of the Guardians of the Whills linked the Force to life itself, saying that life and the Force could be found in each other. The prayer also declared that the Force was eternal.[27] Droids, being mechanical creations and thus possessing no midi-chlorians, could never sense the Force.[25] Although the Force was everywhere, even being present in areas like deep space, it was at its most powerful in areas of life, being easily noticed by Force-sensitives in such lively places. Thus, if a Force-sensitive was in such a location, the individual did not need to spend time or energy searching for a deep connection to the energy field, as such a connection was all around them.[16]

Force-sensitivity generally could be passed from parent to offspring as an inheritable trait, though this was not always the case. The Force was strong with the Skywalker family as well as the Palpatine family.[6] The twins Luke Skywalker and Leia Organa were born Force-sensitive like their father, the Chosen One Anakin Skywalker, as was Organa's son, Ben Solo. Unlike the members of Anakin Skywalker's bloodline, the son of Galactic Emperor Sheev Palpatine—the Sith Lord Darth Sidious—did not inherit his father's connection to the Force. The Emperor's son was an artificial strandcast, a byproduct of the Sith Eternal cult's cloning experiment with Sidious' genetic template. However, the Emperor's cloned son sired a natural-born daughter, Rey, who was Force-sensitive as a result of her descent from Sidious, her paternal grandfather.[28]

It was possible for siblings born to normal parents to not share a talent for Force sensitivity. Such was the case with Zare and Dhara Leonis. While Dhara, from an early age, could always sense her brother's presence, Zare never had this talent, nor any special abilities that could be attributed to the Force.[29] The technique of "Magick" was an aspect of the Force,[30] with the Nightsister Talzin claiming it allowed her to become a Force user through unnatural means.[31] Despite what non–Force-sensitives often believed, using a Force power was not as simple as waving one's hands, as channeling the Force took an effort, especially for individuals like Ty Yorrick, who had been through trauma. Being surrounded by negative emotions also made it hard for a light side user to focus on their abilities,[32] creating a weakness that was once exploited by Marchion Ro, who surrounded an imprisoned Jedi Master with people being constantly tortured in order to hinder his ability to call on the Force.[16]

Indeed, the study of the Force was a lifelong commitment for a Jedi. Whereas Luke Skywalker devoted his life to the Force, his sister did not complete her Jedi training, having chosen her family and political career instead of the Jedi way of life.[28] The Jedi Code restricted members of the Jedi Order from forming personal relationships. Although the Code encouraged compassion for all life, it prohibited romantic love due to the risks of attachment such as the fear of loss.[33] The Jedi of the Republic Era were identified by their midi-chlorian levels; the Force-sensitive population of the Galactic Republic was more easily identifiable than that of the territories outside of the Republic's domain.[34] The Order sought to shield its members from fear, anger, hatred and other emotions that were considered dangerous to the Jedi. As such, the Order regarded younglings as the preferred age group for recruitment, although exceptions could be made for older children[33] at the discretion of the Jedi High Council.[34]

A Force-bond was a connection between two Force-sensitive individuals;[35] the bond between a Force dyad was exceedingly rare and as powerful as life itself.[10] A Force-bond spanned across space and time,[6] allowing the bonded Force-sensitives to communicate over vast distances,[35] such as separate planets across the galaxy.[10] During the High Republic Era, Jedi Master Avar Kriss held a rare ability involving such bonds, being able to connect and strength the natural connections into what effectively became a communication network. Although it was inexact and best for informing each other of locations or sensations, dozens of Jedi could be brought into the network, allowing for greater coordination during the duration of the connection.[16]