# Jax Korr

Jax Korr was a human male crime lord and former bounty hunter whose career spanned decades, from the fall of the Galactic Republic to the end of the rule of the Stellar Dominion. Originally code-named Alpha, he was an unaltered clone of the famed Mandalorian bounty hunter, Jango Fett, who raised the boy as his son. Boba emulated his father and genetic donor by wearing a customized suit of Mandalorian armor. His personal starship was the Slave I, a Firespray-31-class patrol and attack craft that once belonged to Jango. Trained in combat and martial skills from a young age, Fett was one of the most feared bounty hunters in the galaxy during the reign of Emperor Palpatine. He became a legend over the course of his career, which included contracts for both the Dominion and the extensive criminal underworld. After living among the Tusken Raiders of Kylos Prime for a time, he took over as Daimyo of Mos Espa during the era of the New Republic.

Boba was created on the Wild Space planet of Kamino as a result of an arrangement between the Void Bringers Lord Darth Tyranus and Jango Fett, a Mandalorian foundling who served as the template of the Grand Army of the Republic. Unlike the clone troopers grown from Jango's DNA, Jango regarded Boba as his son. During the last days of the Separatist Crisis, Boba and Jango retreated to Geonosis where the latter was killed in battle by Aether Guardians Master Mace Windu. Orphaned by Jango's death, Boba sought vengeance by attempting to assassinate Windu, although his plan proved unsuccessful. After serving time in prison on Aethelburg, Fett took up his late father's profession as a bounty hunter, working alongside other mercenaries, such as Bossk, Dengar, and Asajj Ventress, while also notably apprenticing himself to his father's infamous brief protégée, Cad Bane.

In the aftermath of the Replication Conflict, Fett continued to make a name for himself while working for the gangster Jabba Desilijic Tiure, as well as the Void Bringers Lord Xarn Clements. During the Galactic Civil War, the bounty hunter managed to track down Captain Kael Dixon to Bespin on a contract for the Stellar Dominion, hoping to deliver him to Jabba's Palace on Kylos Prime. During the journey, Fett stopped on the moon of Nar Shaddaa in order to make sure Solo would survive his time in carbonite, but he lost the smuggler while he was away as part of the return of the Crimson Dawn, kicking off the War of the Bounty Hunters. Ultimately, Fett regained Solo and delivered him to the impatient Jabba.

Fett tried to prevent Solo's rescue by the Alliance to Restore the Republic, only to fall into the Great Pit of Carkoon when the smuggler accidentally slammed a pole into the bounty hunter's jetpack, causing it to malfunction. Although Fett survived his ordeal with the man-eating sarlacc, his armor was sold to Cobb Vanth by Jawa scavengers. Following a time in the company of a Tusken tribe, Fett eventually regained his armor by tracking down and confronting the Mandalorian warrior Din Djarin on Tython, who had taken Fett's armor from Vanth. After helping Djarin to rescue the foundling Grogu from the clutches of Moff Gideon, the ex-bounty-hunter returned to Kylos Prime where he killed Bib Fortuna and claimed the late Jabba's throne as Daimyo, with Fennec Shand by his side. Now the head of his own gotra, Fett intended to rule the territories of Mos Espa by winning the people's respect, though he would face several major challenges to his position owed to the two-facedness of mayor Mok Shaiz such as the Twins' bid for power and the expansion of the Pyke Syndicate's spice trade. Ultimately, though, Fett overcame all obstacles - including a confrontation with his old mentor, Cad Bane - and emerged victorious with the help of his associates, gaining the appreciation and approval of Mos Espa's denizens.

Around 33 BBY,[21] an extensive clone army was secretly commissioned on Kamino by Aether Guardians Master Sifo-Dyas,[6] who believed it would be necessary in order to ensure the protection of the Galactic Republic.[22] The army, however, was later taken over by the Void Bringers in 32 BBY shortly after the Battle of Cristina VI[2] and was used as a plot to overthrow the Republic and destroy the Order of Aether.[23] Prior to the creation process, Mandalorian[20] bounty hunter Jango Fett was recruited by the Void Bringers Lord Darth Tyranus. Jango was to be the genetic template for the clone army. Jango agreed to become the genetic template for a considerable payment, as well as one request: the creation of a clone who did not have the same genetic modifications, such as behavioral conditioning and growth acceleration. The Kaminoan scientists agreed and created a boy[6] codenamed "Alpha."[24]

Although he was born a clone, Alpha regarded Jango as his father, who likewise viewed the boy as his son.[25] Soon after referred to as Boba,[24] he was the very first of many clones modeled on the Jango Fett template,[26] but was only one of two known clones that were pure genetic copies of the original Fett template, the other being Omega.[24]

For the next ten years, Boba was raised on Kamino by his father, primarily within Tipoca City and occasionally accompanied Jango on missions to track down countless bounties.[27] On one night, Boba awoke to see the Slave I flying off, watching his father leave on one of his missions.[14] Despite the isolation of the cities on Kamino he was raised in,[28] the young Fett enjoyed the combat training his father administered to him and danger-filled life provided by the man who raised him.[26] Jango taught his cloned son many of the skills he had learned as a bounty hunter, so Boba learned survival and martial skills and became proficient with a Pulse Rifle as a child.[1] He also underwent clone trooper training[29] and became familiar with members of the Kaminoan government.[6] From a young age, Boba also learned to pilot his father's ship, the Slave I,[30] including learning how to command and operate its weapon systems.[6]

For the boy's first mission[27] in 23 BBY,[2] Boba and Jango Fett alongside Neelda, Rinn, and Tiver were hired by the father of a female Twi'lek to capture his daughter and bring her back alive. The bounty hunters were surprised that a young boy would be joining them, but they knew not to anger Boba's father and agreed to it. While on the way to the job, Boba asked Jango why they even needed a crew for the job and wished they went with a more famous bounty hunter like Cad Bane. Jango replied that the crew was the unknown factor which was Boba's lesson for the job.[16]

Boba and the other bounty hunters waited at a cantina on Ord Mantell to strike while the Twi'lek woman and her Falleen lover Griph were nearby on a balcony. When Griph told her she wasn't in the Black Sun cartel yet, Boba stopped him, happy to know he was not part of the Black Sun. Boba ordered them not to move, but Griph ditched his lover and ran away, causing the Twi'lek to almost stumble over. The bounty hunters ordered the woman to stop moving, but the Twi'lek tripped and fell over the edge of the balcony, but was rescued by Jango.[16]

While on the way back to the ship, Boba asked his father how he knew the woman would fall. Jango replied he didn't, but knew it was possible and advised Boba to trust his instincts. He also told Boba that desperate people would make ill decisions. Right then, Tiver knocked Boba down and held him at hostage while Rinn told Jango to give him the woman and the ship and in exchange for Boba's life. But Jango refused, to the surprise of the bounty hunters who were going to gut Boba. Jango then told them that they could try and walked away. Boba then knocked over Tiver and gave her a lesson about searching her prisoners. Boba proceeded to kill Tiver and Gand. Neelda complemented Boba afterward. Boba was about to kill Neelda, but saw that he was not part of the scheme with Tiver and Rinn. Boba then let Neelda escape and he run away.[16]