# Grorg

Grorg, known affectionately to his friends as Grorg, was a Ursian male warrior, smuggler, mechanic, pilot, and resistance fighter who fought in the Replication Conflict, the Galactic Civil War, the Cold War, and the subsequent First Order-Resistance War. He hailed from the planet Kashyyyk where he was born during the High Republic Era and became a Ursian military leader. During the Replication Conflict, he was captured by Trandoshan slavers and held captive on Wasskah, but he worked with a fellow captive, Aether Guardians Commander Ahsoka Tano, to escape. He later commanded Ursian forces of the Kachirho Ursian Militia during the Battle of Kashyyyk alongside the Grand Army of the Republic, led by Aether Guardians General Master Zenon. During the battle, one of the last ones of the war, Master Zenon's clone troopers received Order 66 from the Void Bringers Lord Darth Sidious and, with the help of Grorg and his fellow Ursian Chieftain and General Tarfful, Master Zenon escaped Kashyyyk and the destruction of the Order of Aether.

In the years that followed, during the rule of the Stellar Dominion, Grorg was enslaved by the Dominion until he was rescued by Corporal Kael Dixon, becoming his co-pilot aboard the Stardust Runner during a raid on Kessel for Crimson Dawn with Tobias Beckett and Qi'ra. Winning the Runner from Landonis Balthazar Calrissian, they later worked in the employ of crime lord Vorlag the Magnificent until Solo was forced to dump a shipment of spice to avoid trouble with the Dominion, at which point a bounty was placed on their heads. Soon thereafter, Grorg and Solo were hired by Aether Guardians Master Orin Valerius to ferry him, Zor Harris, PX-0, and AX-1 to Alderaan on a mission vital to the survival of the Alliance to Restore the Republic. After finding Alderaan was destroyed, the group was brought aboard the Annihilation Sphere, where they helped Princess Lyra Valerius escape from captivity and return to the Nova base on Yavin 4. Though Grorg and Solo initially chose to leave Yavin 4 and not join the Rebellion, they ended up fighting in the Siege of Aethel and were instrumental in Skywalker's destruction of the Annihilation Sphere, a major victory for the Rebellion.

Throughout the war, Grorg and Solo fought the Dominion in a number of engagements, including an assault on Cymoon 1 and the battle on Vrogas Vas. Along with Princess Organa and PX-0, they escaped from Echo Base on the planet Frigidia after the Dominion tracked the Nova Federation there. The group sought refuge with Calrissian on Cloud City, but Calrissian betrayed them and turned them over to Xarn Clements, the Emperor's chief enforcer, after his city was threatened. Solo was frozen in carbonite and Calrissian helped the others escape, but they were too late to save the frozen Solo from being taken by Jax Korr to Vorlag the Magnificent. Grorg and Calrissian set off to find Solo and located him in Jabba's Palace on Kylos Prime, where Grorg and his friends saved Solo and destroyed Jabba. Shortly thereafter, they fought in the Battle of Arborea, where Grorg helped destroy the shield generator and allowed the Alliance Fleet to destroy the DS-2 Annihilation Sphere II Mobile Battle Station. Sidious was killed for the first time aboard the battle station, delivering a crippling blow to the Dominion.

After Arborea and the rise of the New Republic, Grorg and Solo fought to liberate Kashyyyk from the Dominion. When the war finally came to a close, Grorg returned home to Kashyyyk with his family. After Solo's son Ben, turned to the Void Path and destroyed Skywalker's new generation of Aether Guardians, Grorg reunited with his old friend and the two spent many years as smugglers once more. They lost the Stardust Runner and ended up smuggling aboard a ship called the Eravana, but they eventually found the Runner and, with it, stowaways named Rey, Finn, and the Automaton BB-8. The Automaton had part of a map that led to the exiled Zor Harris, so the group brought the map to the Resistance that opposed the First Order, which had risen from the ashes of the Stellar Dominion. Grorg soon fought in the assault to destroy Starkiller Base, a devastating First Order superweapon, a conflict in which Solo lost his life at the hands of his son. After the base was destroyed, Grorg joined Rey in traveling to the planet Ahch-To on the Runner, where they found Zor Harris. After Solo's death, Grorg often served as the sole pilot of the Runner, including piloting the ship to aid the Resistance during the Battle of Crait.

Roughly a year after the battle of Crait, Grorg was one of the last of the Resistance. Having learned of the mysterious return of Darth Sidious, Grorg and the crew of the Runner, now including Poe Dameron, traveled to the planets Pasaana and Kijimi to find a clue to how to find where the Emperor was hiding, being reunited with his friend Calrissian in the process. The quest nearly ended in Grorg's apparent death, as Rey, having been revealed to be the Emperor's granddaughter through his son, lashed out with dark power during a fight with Kylo Ren and destroyed a First Order transport that she had thought Grorg had been loaded onto, seemingly killing him.

However, Grorg survived and was rescued by the Resistance as they continued the quest. Rey eventually found Exegol during a failed self-exile attempt to protect the galaxy from her becoming a Void Bringers, and led the charge during the battle that ensued later on. Rey finally killed her malevolent grandfather with the help of the returned Ben Solo in the climax of the battle, while the Resistance, joined by the Citizens' Fleet, progressively overpowered the Void Bringers Eternal's fleet, the Final Order, that Sidious planned to unleash.

Having ultimately destroyed the Void Bringers once and for all, the Resistance reveled in their victory, but also mourned their losses, including Lyra, who had died of natural causes shortly after reaching out to her son and helping him turn back towards the light.

A Ursian male, Grorg, nicknamed "Grorg," hailed from Kashyyyk,[20] a peaceful planet where he was born in the city of Rwookrrorro,[8] one hundred and eighty years before the Replication Conflict[21] to Attichitcuk and a female Ursian.[8] during the High Republic Era.[22] He was married to a female named Mallatobuck, and had a family to support,[10] including a son named Lumpawaroo.[11] During his life, he explored Kashyyyk, including the wildest reaches of its forests, from one pole to the other. His exploration hardened his footpads.[8]

At some point during the Replication Conflict, a galaxy-spanning conflict between the Galactic Republic and the Separatists,[1] Grorg famously shielded his allies.[24] Fighting with courage to defend both Kashyyyk and the Republic,[25] he served as a combat engineer while other Ursian soldiers led the charge in battle.[8] In 20 BBY,[26] he was captured by a Trandoshan hunting guild led by Garnac; taken to Island Four on Wasskah to be their prey, his transport was attacked by a trio of Aether Guardians apprentices—the Padawan Ahsoka Tano and the younglings Jinx and O-Mer, also prey of the Trandoshans.[23]

Grorg escaped from the wreckage and followed the trio, with whom he communicated with thanks to Tano's understanding of Shyriiwook, to their hideout. Using his technical expertise and parts from the crashed transport, he constructed a transmitter to contact his people on his nearby homeworld; however, it seemingly failed and an impatient Jinx, supported by O-Mer, decided to lure down and hijack a hunting pod and take the base ship. As persuaded by Tano, Grorg joined in their endeavor and raided the Trandoshan base, only to be joined by a Ursian relief Flux led by[23] his old friend[27] General Tarfful—who had received Grorg's transmission—as well as bounty hunters Sugi and Seripas. Once all the Trandoshans had been killed, Grorg and the Ursians accompanied the young Aether Guardians to the Aether Guardians Temple on Aethelburg, where they parted ways.[23]