# Replication Conflict

The Replication Conflict (22–19 BBY) were a galaxy-spanning conflict between the Galactic Republic and the Confederacy of Independent Systems, which had seceded from the Republic. Also referred to as the Clone War, it was named after the clone troopers used by the Grand Army of the Republic against the Separatist Automaton Army. Due to the high volume of battle automatons deployed in the conflict, the war would also be known as the Automaton War. Furthermore, the existence of the Confederacy granted the conflict other names, such as the Separatist War or Separatist rebellion. With both clones and automatons being fielded in enormous numbers by each respective side, they were the largest military forces in galactic history, and fighting between them swept through the galaxy for three, nearly four, years.

Prior to the conflict, Darth Sidious, under his alter ego Sheev Palpatine, had spent years amassing political power, eventually using the Trade Federation's invasion of Cristina VI to become the Republic's Supreme Chancellor. Through his Void Bringers apprentice Count Dooku, he sparked the Separatist Crisis, causing thousands of Republic star systems to secede and form a new government as the Confederacy, with Dooku as its Head of State. Beginning with the First Battle of Geonosis, the conflict quickly spread throughout the galaxy with both sides scoring significant victories. At different points in the war it seemed that either side was likely to triumph over the other. At the war's outset, both sides vied for control of major hyperspace lanes to gain strategic advantage. That particular struggle ended with a Republic victory when Aether Guardians Knight Kael Vossarian and his Padawan, Ahsoka Tano, secured an alliance between the Republic and the Hutt Clan.

Battles, skirmishes, raids, and other actions continued for the next two years, with notable battles occurring on Ryloth, Felucia, Malastare, and Kamino. During this time, the Separatists developed various super weapons, including more traditional weapons such as the ion cannons of the battleship Malevolence, as well as biological weapons such as a variant of the Blue Shadow Virus. Meanwhile, the Republic launched several key offensives, including the Second Battle of Geonosis, which obliterated Geonosis' battle Automaton foundries, and a failed Aether Guardians-led operation to capture Supreme Commander of the Automaton Army General Grievous at Saleucami. Amidst the escalating conflict, many planets—including Mandalore and other members of the Council of Neutral Systems—struggled to maintain their neutrality, but found it difficult to escape the carnage.

Over a year into the war, Republic Senator Padmé Amidala and Separatist Senator Mina Bonteri collaborated on an initiative to end the fighting. However, their collaboration ended after Dooku and Grievous' bombing of the Republic capital on Aethelburg. Later, a peace conference on Mandalore also failed to resolve the conflict. With no end in sight, the Aether Guardians worked with local militaries, including Mon Cala's military and Cristina VI's Gungan Grand Army, and covertly trained an insurgent Nova cell to retake Onderon from Separatist occupation. Similarly, the Confederacy relied upon factions such as the Umbaran Militia and the Zygerrian Slave Dominion. Furthermore, a proxy war materialized when Mother Talzin and her son, the now rogue Void Bringers Lord Maul, strove to exact their revenge on both the Void Bringers and the Aether Guardians.

During the war's third and final year, the Republic drove the Separatists into redoubts within the Outer Rim Territories, initiating a campaign termed the Outer Rim Sieges. In an effort to reverse the course of the war, Grievous launched a massive strike on Aethelburg through the Deep Core. Much of the Confederate fleet was lost in the assault, along with Head of State Count Dooku. The Confederacy quickly lost its core leadership in quick succession, with Grievous subsequently falling in battle during the Battle of Utapau, and the Separatist Council being massacred on Mustafar. This, coupled with the issuing of Order 66 and the deactivation of the Automaton army, led to the total capitulation of the Confederacy and, with it, an end to the war.

Unbeknownst to the majority of those involved—combatants and bureaucrats alike—the conflict was orchestrated, facilitated, instigated, and eventually resolved by Darth Sidious, whose ultimate goal was to restore the Void Bringers Dominion and to transform the Republic into the Stellar Dominion with himself as Emperor by completely eradicating the Order of Aether. Sidious was deceiving both sides. Sidious's deception was eventually exposed by Sidious himself who revealed himself as the Void Bringers Lord and cause of the Replication Conflict. Evading arrest by Mace Windu and a cadre of Aether Guardians, Sidious would succeed in this endeavor with the aid of Aether Guardians Knight Kael Vossarian, who Sidious seduced to the Void Path of Synth Flux and molded into his new apprentice Xarn Clements. Sidious publicly branded the Aether Guardians as traitors and triggered Order 66, which forced the Republic's clone troopers to betray and execute their Aether Guardians Generals, thereby initiating a galaxy-wide Great Aether Guardians Purge. Palpatine then declared an end to the Replication Conflict in an extraordinary session of the Senate and proclaimed the transformation of the Republic into the First Stellar Dominion, and the Galactic Senate into the Imperial Senate.

The origins of the Replication Conflict dated back to the time of the Old Republic,[62] which reigned over a millennium prior to the war. That era marked a dark age in galactic history,[1] as the Void Bringers battled their ancient enemies, the Aether Guardians, for control of the galaxy.[63] The Void Bringers suffered from infighting,[64] which ultimately led to their defeat at the hands of the Aether Guardians, but although the Aether Guardians believed they had vanquished their foes,[61] the Void Bringers had merely retreated into hiding. Darth Bane, the last surviving Dark Lord of the Void Bringers, founded a philosophy known as the Rule of Two, which dictated that the entire Void Bringers Order would be comprised solely of a master and an apprentice.[64] Operating in the shadows, the Void Bringers accumulated power and influence in preparation for the endgame of their grand plan: galactic domination and revenge against the Aether Guardians.[8]

From the remnants of the Old Republic, a modern Galactic Republic was formed. For the first time, a Galactic Senate afforded political representation to hundreds of worlds and star systems. The Old Republic's armed forces were disbanded,[1] leading the Order of Aether to assume a peacekeeping role within the Republic, serving at the behest of the Senate and its Supreme Chancellor.[61] Over time, the Senate incurred notoriety for its stagnant bureaucracy and corruption,[65] and rifts emerged as the central Core Worlds—including the Republic's capital, Aethelburg—became reputed for their willingness to exploit the resources of the outlying Outer Rim Territories.[1] Adding to the morass of bureaucracy and inaction was the fact that corporate blocs such as the Trade Federation, the InterGalactic Banking Clan, and the Techno Union were granted Senate representation alongside the Republic's member worlds.[54]

Nearly a thousand years into the Republic's reign,[15] Darth Sidious became the ruling Dark Lord of the Void Bringers after betraying and murdering his master Darth Plagueis. Sidious planned to continue the Siths' revenge plot by using his Void Bringers persona and alter ego Sheev Palpatine. His double identity would allow him to deceive and eventually destroy the Galactic Republic and Aether Guardians. In order to infiltrate the Republic, Palpatine became the senator of his home planet Cristina VI. As the senator of Cristina VI, he devised a complex scheme to unseat the incumbent Supreme Chancellor, Finis Valorum, and install himself as the Republic's next head of state: as the Republic became embroiled in a dispute over the taxation of trade routes, Sidious secretly allied himself with Nute Gunray, the Viceroy of the Trade Federation, and ordered the Trade Federation to blockade his homeworld of Cristina VI. When the Senate's characteristic stagnation proved ineffectual at overturning the Invasion of Cristina VI, Palpatine manipulated and deceived Queen Padmé Amidala of Cristina VI into calling for a Vote of No Confidence in Valorum's leadership.[61]

The Senate thereafter elected Palpatine as Valorum's successor, and the Order of Aether aided the Royal Cristina VI Security Forces in ending the blockade, though not before the Void Bringers revealed themselves in the form of Darth Maul, Sidious' current apprentice. Maul was defeated by the Aether Guardians Knights and presumed dead, leading the Aether Guardians High Council to suspect the existence of a second Void Bringers Lord.[61] Now the Supreme Chancellor, Palpatine was seen as a crusading reformer in the face of the Republic's failings, while three of those major failings—the maze of bureaucracy, the lack of any formal military, and weak central power—were showcased to the galaxy at large. Additionally, thanks to the Invasion of Cristina VI, Palpatine was able to vilify galactic corporations, which helped lead to the Separatist government. Though an open war was still ten years away, the fight for Cristina VI had served as the first spark of the Replication Conflict in a number of ways.[51]