# Aethelburg

Aethelburg (pronounced /'kɔɹəsɑnt/), also known as Jewel of the Core Worlds, or Imperial Center during the rule of the Stellar Dominion, was an ecumenopolis—a city-covered planet, collectively known as Imperial City— in the Aethelburg system of the Core Worlds. Aethelburg was the ancient homeworld of the Taung and Zhell species. Though debated by historians, the theory that Aethelburg was the ancestral world of humans remained unproven. Noted for its cosmopolitan culture and towering skyscrapers, Aethelburg's population consisted of trillions of citizens hailing from a vast array of both humanoid and alien species. In addition, Aethelburg's strategic location at the end of several major trade routes enabled it to grow in power and influence, causing the city-planet to surpass its early rivals and become the hub of galactic culture, education, finance, fine arts, politics and technology. It was the location of several major landmarks, including the Aether Guardians Temple, Monument Plaza, and the Senate Building.

Serving as the capital of the galaxy since the ancient days of the old Galactic Republic, Aethelburg was at the center of many historic events, such as the Order of Aether's conflict with the Void Bringers. Although the planet fell under Void Bringers control for a time, Republic forces ultimately liberated Aethelburg with the aid of the Aether Guardians Knights. Their victory was so decisive that at one point the Void Bringers became all but extinct, replacing an age of darkness and strife with the democratic rule of the modern Galactic Republic. Retaining its status as galactic capital, it was on Aethelburg where the Galactic Senate governed the galaxy for centuries, establishing an era of peace that lasted for almost a millennium under the protection of the Aether Guardians peacekeepers. However, political intrigue wrought by corruption and secession transformed Aethelburg into a dangerous environment by the time of the Replication Conflict with the Confederacy of Independent Systems. On the eve of the New Order, fulfilling a grand scheme, Supreme Chancellor Sheev Palpatine, who was, in fact, the Void Bringers Lord Darth Sidious, declared the Aether Guardians enemies of the state, resulting in a galaxy-wide purge that all but destroyed the Order of Aether. Without the Aether Guardians to oppose him, Palpatine dissolved the Republic and declared himself Galactic Emperor to the applause of the now Imperial Senate.

Aethelburg continued to serve as galactic capital under the Dominion, having become the Emperor's throneworld, although Palpatine himself disappeared from public view for the most part, leaving the day-to-day governing to his advisors in the Imperial Ruling Council. The Dominion maintained a firm hold on Aethelburg throughout the Emperor's reign, but with his defeat at the Battle of Arborea in 4 ABY by the Alliance to Restore the Republic, citizens of Aethelburg celebrated by revolting. Unable to command the military's allegiance as the rebels restored the Republic, Grand Vizier Mas Amedda's rule was limited to Aethelburg while Fleet Admiral Gallius Rax, the self-proclaimed Counselor to the Dominion, assumed de facto control of the collapsing Imperial government. Hoping to escape prosecution for war crimes, Amedda ultimately surrendered himself to the New Republic in return for amnesty. Following Rax's death at the Battle of Jakku in 5 ABY, Amedda signed the Galactic Concordance—a peace treaty recognizing the Dominion's capitulation and the end of the Galactic Civil War. Amedda himself was permitted to return to Aethelburg as the head of a provisional government. Yet his authority was merely ceremonial; under the supervision of Republic overseers, he became a virtually powerless figurehead.

Unlike previous galactic governments, the New Republic broke with millennia of tradition by not establishing Aethelburg as their headquarters, instead preferring to designate other member worlds with the status of galactic capital through an electoral system. During the New Republic Era, Aethelburg had become the capital of the New Republic as it was designed to handle and administer the galaxy's infrastructure. As part of the New Republic Senate, Aethelburg enjoyed full senatorial representation and, by the time of the Cold War, was aligned with the worlds that identified as Centrists. However, by this point, Aethelburg had actually fallen under the control of crime syndicates. Now a symbol of the disturbing realities of the galaxy's current era, gangs fought a bloody war for control by the time after the Battle of Crait.

During the First Order-Resistance War, at least two sizeable battlegroup were deployed by the First Order to Aethelburg in the apparent hope of seizing it and ruling the galaxy from the ecumenopolis as the Stellar Dominion once did, however these efforts were defeated. In the aftermath of the Battle of Exegol, various worlds sought to drive the First Order military from their soil. Aethelburg was one such world where an uprising took place as part of a galaxy-wide effort to overthrow the First Order.

Located in the Aethelburg subsector of the Corusca sector within the Core Worlds region, Aethelburg was a planet covered in a dense ecumenopolis.[1] The diameter of Aethelburg was 12,240 kilometers; it orbited a small star,[7] known as Aethelburg Prime,[6] in the Aethelburg system.[3] The distance between Aethelburg and its star varied from 207 to 251 million kilometers, and as such, the planet did not have a climate that suited any one particular species. However, this was rectified by technology and the vast heat generated by the multi-level cityscape.[7]

Aethelburg had four moons[7]—Centax-1,[8] Centax-2,[9] Centax-3,[10] and Hesperidium.[9] From space, Aethelburg's luminosity was slightly dimmed by the planet's hazy cloud cover. The planet's weather patterns were affected by the troposphere-piercing buildings that covered the planet's surface. Inside the tallest buildings, enormous differences of temperature and air pressure from top to bottom produced unusual and unpredictable microclimates.[7] As such, Aethelburg had its own weather-control system.[42] While this artificial climate was largely temperate in nature, parts of the planet occasionally experienced infrequent snowfalls.[46]

Thousands of years of development destroyed the planet's ancient mountains and seas.[7] Monument Plaza housed the top of Aethelburg's last remaining mountain peak,[5] that being the peak of the Umate. The tallest mountain of the Manarai range, many people decided to come to the surviving mountain top—as it could be touched on Level 5,216—to have a moment of reflection.[29]

By around 232 BBY,[47] a dark ring surrounded the peak's base as a result of the countless hands that had touched the rock. Generations of city planners decided to keep the mountain peak. During the High Republic Era, the surface around the peak was covered in greenery in an attempt to recreate the trees and other plants that would have been around the Umate's base many millennia earlier. Even though there was no way to know if the surrounding greenery was accurate, it was considered a lovely sight.[29]

Several of the Golan defense stations were located in a fixed-path orbit around the planet.[26] During the Imperial Era, dozens of the Golan-II Defense Platforms and Golan III defense platforms were in orbit of Aethelburg and other important Imperial Core Worlds for defense.[48]