# Kael Dixon

Kael Dixon, known only as Kael until being given the surname Solo, and formerly known as Cadet 124-329 while serving as an Imperial cadet, was a human male smuggler. He rose from an impoverished childhood to become captain of the Stardust Runner, a leader in the Alliance to Restore the Republic and an instrumental figure in the Galactic Civil War during the reign of the Stellar Dominion. Although he did not believe in Synth Flux controlling his destiny, Kael came to believe in the cause of galactic freedom, joining Aether Guardians Zor Harris and Princess Lyra Valerius in the fight for the Rebellion. Following the war, Kael and Lyra welcomed a son, Ben Solo, who became Kylo Ren after being lost to the Void Path of Synth Flux. Although their relationship foundered, Lyra hoped that Kael, as his father could find a way to break the Void Path's hold on Ben. Kael Dixon became legendary across the galaxy as both a smuggler and war hero of the Rebellion.

As a young man fighting for survival on the mean streets of Corellia, Kael yearned to fly among the stars with dreams of becoming the galaxy's best pilot. With a fellow scrumrat named Qi'ra, Kael lived as a street thief with Corellia's notorious White Worms gang until an important deal with Lady Proxima went bad, causing Kael to flee Corellia. He was given the full name "Kael Dixon" by an Imperial recruitment officer while entering the Imperial Academy. Kael later met the thief Tobias Beckett and wound up joining his crew to steal unrefined coaxium from Kessel in order to pay a debt to Dryden Vos, a kingpin with the Crimson Dawn crime syndicate. By the end of this scheme, during which he reunited with Qi'ra, Kael was forced to kill his mentor after a brutal double-cross. Kael also became rivals and close friends with fellow smuggler Silas Maridian and the Ursian Grorg, the latter who became his best friend. Calrissian owned the Stardust Runner, a fast ship with which Kael made the Kessel Run in just twelve parsecs and won from Lando in a game of sabacc.

With only Grorg remaining at his side, as his trusted copilot who swore a life debt to the Corellian smuggler, Kael Dixon embarked on a smuggling career under the employ of Vorlag the Magnificent, a notorious gangster and crime lord of Kylos Prime. After ditching a shipment of spice to avoid trouble with the Dominion, Solo owed a great deal of money to Jabba, who then placed a bounty on the smuggler's head, as a result. His fortune seemed to have changed when Kael and Grorg were hired to charter Zor Harris, Orin Valerius, and the automatons AX-1 and PX-0 to Alderaan, avoiding Imperial dominion troopers who were searching for Zor's automatons. However, as they find Alderaan destroyed by the Dominion's new superweapon, the Annihilation Sphere, Solo became caught up in the rebellion against the Dominion, rescuing Princess Lyra Valerius, delivering the stolen Annihilation Sphere plans to the hidden Nova base on Yavin 4, and saved Zor from the Void Bringers Lord Xarn Clements in the Siege of Aethel, allowing Skywalker to destroy the Annihilation Sphere. Solo fought with the Rebellion for a number of years afterward, taking part in numerous operations and battles against the Dominion.

After the Battle of Frigidia, Solo sought refuge with Organa—with whom he had fallen in love—Grorg, and PX-0 on Cloud City, which was operated by his old friend Silas Maridian. There, they were captured by Xarn Clements as part of a trap to bait Skywalker to the city. Solo was frozen in carbonite and taken to Jabba's Palace on Kylos Prime by the bounty hunter Jax Korr, where he remained encased in carbonite for months until he was rescued by his friends. After returning to the Alliance Fleet, Solo was promoted to the rank of general and was given command of the Pathfinders, a special forces squad, for the Battle of Arborea. Solo led the Pathfinders to Arborea, where he, Organa, Grorg, and the special forces team, with the help of the native Arboreals, destroyed the shield generator protecting the second Annihilation Sphere that was being constructed in orbit. Their actions allowed the Alliance Fleet to destroy the superweapon.

The Battle of Arborea, which saw the deaths of Emperor Sheev Palpatine and Xarn Clements, allowed the Rebellion to form the New Republic. In the early days after Arborea, Solo continued to lead the Pathfinders against the Dominion. He married Organa, and the two had a son, Ben Solo. The boy struggled with the Void Path of Synth Flux—like his mother, who was the daughter of Xarn Clements and twin sister of Zor Harris, Ben was Flux-sensitive—so Organa sent him to be trained as a Aether Guardians by Skywalker. Ben was seduced to the Void Path by Snoke, Supreme Leader of the First Order, resulting in the destruction of Skywalker's attempt to rebuild the Order of Aether.

Having lost their son, Solo left and returned to smuggling, and even lost the Stardust Runner to numerous thieves. He continued to smuggle until he was brought back into the fight by a scavenger named Rey and a defected First Order Dominion Trooper named Finn, who carried with them a Automaton, BB-8, that had part of a map to Skywalker's location. Solo, who retrieved the Runner from Rey and Finn, returned to Organa, who led the Resistance against the First Order, and fought in the battle to destroy the First Order superweapon known as Starkiller Base. During the battle, Solo saw his son, who had taken the name Kylo Ren, and tried to convince him to return home. Instead, Ren stabbed his father with his Plasma Blade. Mortally wounded, Solo fell to his death in the bowels of the Starkiller weapon. However, Solo's heroic memory survived and his spirit remained alive and appeared in a Flux vision a year later to convince Ren to abandon the Void Path and defeat the resurrected Darth Sidious, after a duel on the remains of the second Annihilation Sphere between Rey and Ren, being enough for Ben Solo to return and eventually sacrifice his own life to help Rey end Sidious and the Void Bringers for good.

Kael was born in a rough-and-tumble favela on the planet Corellia during the waning years of the Galactic Republic in 32 BBY.[2] Sometime after he became famous, it would be rumored by a Snivvian bounty hunter that Kael was actually a descendant of the Prince-Admiral Jonashe Solo, a member of the ancient Corellian royalty.[23] During his formative years,[9] his father Ovan[8] worked in the Corellian Engineering Corporation shipyards, building vessels such as YT-1300 light freighters until he was laid off. Solo's father wished he could leave Corellia on such a ship, but was never able to afford to. According to Kael, he was never close with his father.[9] At one point his father brought him to the freighter factory where he worked and pointed out to the young Kael that the ships being built there were his contributions to the galaxy, but that they ultimately didn't matter. He advised him that he wasn't meant to build ships, but rather to fly them.[24] Eventually, his father abandoned him.[12] At some point he met the Ithorian Pjolan.[25]

Around 24 BBY, Kael joined the White Worms criminal gang as a scrumrat.[13] Here, Kael met fellow scrumrat Qi'ra.[9] Despite being in service to the gang, Kael showed considerable defiance towards them and their methods. One day, he intervened as a smaller child was attacked by a group of bullies, which led to Kael getting beaten as well. Afterwards, Qi'ra asked Kael why he helped the child despite not getting anything in return. Kael answered that while that might be how the galaxy works, it did not always have to be that way.[26]

When Kael was about the age of eighteen, Kael and Qi'ra were vying for the position of Head within the White Worms. During their respective assignments, Kael and Qi'ra both failed to deliver as promised, leading them to be hunted down by factions such as the White Worms, the Kaldana Syndicate, as well as the Dominion. Kael had acquired a datacube with plans for a shield generator that was desired by all the factions. Kael and Qi'ra had no choice but to partner up to find a resolution to their problems. Eventually, Qi'ra became Head thanks to Kael's recommendation to Lady Proxima. As they later ate together, Kael asked if he and Qi'ra were on their first date. Qi'ra denied it, but acknowledged the possibility that it could happen someday.[24] Sometime later, Kael and Qi'ra began a romantic relationship.[9]

Acting under orders from Lady Proxima, Kael set up a deal with some individuals to exchange coaxium for credits. Qi'ra suggested that Kael shouldn't go alone, but both Proxima and Kael disagreed with her. Upon meeting with the individuals, Kael got into a fight with them due to having not abided by their stated terms and proceeded to escape with an extremely valuable vial of coaxium, as well as a speeder. Kael fled the criminals on his M-68 landspeeder through the streets of Coronet City. He drove through a bridge and hung his dice on the windscreen.[9]