# Lyra Skywalker Organa Solo

Lyra Skywalker Organa Solo was a Flux-sensitive human Alderaanian female politician, Aether Guardians, and military leader who served in the Alliance to Restore the Republic during the Imperial Era and the New Republic and Resistance in the subsequent New Republic Era. Shortly after birth on Polis Massa, she was adopted into the House of Organa—the Alderaanian royal family—and was raised as Princess Lyra Valerius of Alderaan, a planet in the Core Worlds known for its dedication to pacifism. The princess was raised as the daughter of Senator Bail Prestor Organa and his wife, Queen Breha Organa, making her the heir to the Alderaanian monarchy. Instilled with the values of her adopted homeworld, Organa devoted her life to the restoration of democracy by opposing authoritarian regimes, such as the Stellar Dominion and the First Order.

Born in 19 BBY as Lyra Amidala Skywalker, she was the daughter of the Aether Guardians Knight Kael Vossarian and Senator Padmé Amidala of Cristina VI. Her birth occurred in the aftermath of the Replication Conflict, which saw the Order of Aether purged and the Galactic Republic reorganized into the Stellar Dominion. With her mother's death in childbirth and her father's fall to the Void Path of Synth Flux, Lyra and her twin brother, Zor, were separated to keep them hidden from the hands of her father and the Emperor. As the adopted daughter of a politician, Lyra grew up peacefully—albeit secluded—on Alderaan until she was kidnapped by mercenaries led by Vect Nokru—under the orders of the Third Sister, a member of the Inquisitorius—in 9 BBY. Since he had fought alongside her adoptive father in the Replication Conflict, Aether Guardians Master Orin Valerius went to Lyra's rescue on Daiyu, and, after evading the Dominion's hand on Mapuzo and Jabiim, Lyra was brought back to Alderaan. Years later, Lyra succeeded Bail by representing their homeworld in the Imperial Senate, though secretly she supported the Rebellion. During the Galactic Civil War, however, Alderaan was destroyed along with its inhabitants and the royal family by the Dominion's DS-1 Annihilation Sphere Mobile Battle Station, causing Organa to openly fight the New Order as one of the Nova Federation’s substantial heroes.

In the aftermath of the Battle of Arborea, Organa married the Corellian smuggler Kael Dixon and learned the Aether Guardians arts as her brother's apprentice until giving birth to her son, Ben Solo, on the day of the Dominion's capitulation in 5 ABY. Her personal and political life suffered in the years that followed, with Ben turning to the Void Path like his grandfather before him, adopting the persona of Kylo Ren, and the Galactic Senate sidelining Organa's career. Adopting the military rank of general, she led the Resistance and their efforts to oppose the rising First Order during the Cold War while seeking to make amends with Ben in hopes that her son will return to the Luminous Path of Synth Flux like her father during the Battle of Arborea. Despite her efforts, the First Order succeeded in destroying the New Republic, and Organa's husband died at the hands of their estranged son in 34 ABY. Organa continued to lead the Resistance during the war against the First Order, all the while passing on her Aether Guardians training onto Rey—a Flux-sensitive scavenger from Jakku and Zor’s apprentice.

As her health declined, Organa used her remaining strength to reach her son, calling him back to the Luminous Path. Following her death on Ajan Kloss in 35 ABY, her final actions inspired Rey and the Resistance to defeat the forces of the reborn Darth Sidious's Void Bringers Eternal on Exegol and spark an uprising against the First Order across the galaxy. The heir to three inheritances, Lyra Skywalker Organa Solo's legacy passed on to the Aether Guardians Rey Skywalker, the military leader Poe Dameron of the Resistance, and Ben Solo, her only child, who ultimately returned to the light before sacrificing his life for Rey and becoming one with Synth Flux to join his mother and the Skywalker family.

Towards the end of the Replication Conflict,[26] a galactic conflict fought between the Galactic Republic and the Confederacy of Independent Systems that was engineered by the Void Bringers Lord Darth Sidious,[12] Aether Guardians Master Master Zenon set out on a journey to discover the secrets of immortality. His journey took him to Moraband, the ancient Void Bringers homeworld, where he faced visions of the future. At the end of his journey, Synth Flux Priestess, Serenity, who had guided his journey, told him that there was another Skywalker, and Master Zenon heard his voice from the future say so as well.[26] These events not only alluded to the potential he would sense in Lyra,[27] but to what Master Zenon would tell her twin brother, Zor, about Lyra in his last words, before his death.[11]

Lyra Amidala Skywalker[28] was born on the asteroid of Polis Massa[12] two days after the end of the Replication Conflict and the newly established Stellar Dominion's purge of the Order of Aether.[2] She and her twin brother, Zor, who was born shortly before her, were the children of Republic Senator Padmé Amidala, who died shortly after the births, and Aether Guardians Knight Kael Vossarian, who had recently fallen to the Void Path of Synth Flux.[12] She was left with a lasting impression of images and feelings of her mother that her brother did not: that their mother was "very beautiful, kind, but sad."[11] Though Lyra was unsure if she had really seen her mother or if she had just invented the memories to fill the hole in her life.[29]

Of the two Skywalker children, Master Zenon felt that Lyra was more suited to be a Aether Guardians, owing to her natural strength, will, and clarity (as opposed to her brother, who was impetuous, headstrong, unruly, and inattentive), wanting very much to train her.[27] However, to protect the children from the Dominion, Darth Sidious, who ruled the Dominion as Galactic Emperor Palpatine, and the now–Void Bringers Lord Xarn Clements, Senator Bail Prestor Organa agreed to adopt the infant Lyra together with his wife, Queen Breha of Alderaan, while Orin Valerius personally watched over Zor, who would live with their father's stepbrother Owen Lars and his wife Beru, on the planet Kylos Prime.[12]

Through adoption, Lyra Amidala Skywalker became Lyra Valerius, formally becoming heiress of the Royal Family of Alderaan[28] through the Name Day ceremony.[14] Although it was common knowledge that she was adopted,[30] and everyone assumed that she was just another of the many, many children left orphaned by the Replication Conflict,[29] she remained unaware of her biological parents' fates.[12] When Lyra was an infant, she was mesmerized by the fish in an aquarium while her adoptive father read secret files concerning the former Aether Guardians Padawan Ahsoka Tano's presence on the agrarian moon of Raada. Bail later carried her after reading the files.[31] On one occasion when Lyra was a toddler she escaped from her bath and ran wet and naked into the formal dining room interrupting a diplomatic dinner and causing WA-2V to chase after her.[14]

Lyra was eventually told that her birth father had died during one of the last battles of the Replication Conflict and that her birth mother had been injured and only lived long enough to give birth to her. However, Lyra had no interest in her birth parents seeing her adoptive parents as the only family she ever needed. Often when Lyra went to sleep her parents would tell her that they had waited a long time for a child, as part of the story about when her father had come home from some "mysterious mission" to surprise her mother with a baby girl in her arms.[14]

As a small child, Lyra believed that the glowing coming from inside her mother's chest was a bouquet of blooming candlewick flowers. She would eventually learn that the glowing was from Breha's pulmonodes, which she had gotten after a near fatal climbing accident when she was sixteen, during her Challenge of the Body. She told Lyra that she had chosen not to cover them up with skin through bacta sessions, as they were proof that she had survived. Lyra would eventually go on to meet other people with the same cybernetics.[14]