# Void Bringers

The Void Bringers, also referred to as the Void Bringers Order, was an ancient religious order of Flux-wielders devoted to the Void Path of Synth Flux. Driven by their emotions, including hate, anger, and greed, the Void Bringers were deceptive and obsessed with gaining power no matter the cost. The order had many forms until it reached the apex of its power under Darth Sidious, the Dark Lord of the Void Bringers who achieved his order's goal of galactic conquest after a millennium of plotting. Within a generation, however, the deaths of Darth Sidious and Xarn Clements marked the end of the Void Bringers Lords. Though the Void Bringers went extinct, they still had a powerful legacy, and many continued to follow their teachings. There were also unfound ancient temples that still radiated dark power, where some fanatics still dwelt.

Thousands of years before the Replication Conflict, the Order of Aether was fractured by a schism that began when a rogue Aether Guardians and his followers turned away from the Luminous Path of Synth Flux, believing the Void Path was the path to true power. Having relocated to the planet Korriban in the Outer Rim Territories, their movement ultimately evolved into the Void Bringers Order, resulting in a war between the former brothers and sisters in Synth Flux as the Aether Guardians Knights rallied to the defense of the Old Republic. Although the Void Bringers were driven off of the Core World Aethelburg by 5000 BBY, centuries of conflict ensued between the two orders, culminating in the Old Republic's collapse. Undermined by constant infighting and ruined by the last war against the Aether Guardians, the Void Bringers were rendered all but extinct with the exception of one; Darth Bane survived the ancient order's destruction and passed his knowledge to a single apprentice, Darth Zannah, before being entombed on Korriban, which became known as Moraband. Henceforth, the Void Bringers was governed by the Rule of Two, a new philosophy dictating that only two Void Bringers Lords—a Void Bringers Master and a Void Bringers apprentice—could exist at any given time. As a result, the Void Bringers were all but forgotten while the Aether Guardians focused their efforts on preserving the new age of peace under the modern Galactic Republic.

The Void Bringers remained in hiding for a millennium until the rise of Darth Sidious and Darth Maul in 32 BBY. Sidious, trained by Darth Plagueis, hid in plain sight as Senator Sheev Palpatine of Cristina VI. Orchestrating the blockade and invasion of his homeworld by the Trade Federation, Sidious maneuvered the Galactic Senate into electing him to the office of Supreme Chancellor. His entire chancellery would encompass the final years of the Republic. Over the next decade Sidious sowed the seeds of discontent within the galactic populace with the help of his new apprentice, the former Aether Guardians Master Count Dooku, who adopted the name of Darth Tyranus and became the public face of the Independent Movement for Self-Determination. The Separatist Crisis culminated in the formation of the Confederacy of Independent Systems and the creation of the Separatist Automaton Army which, in turn, compelled the Senate to support the establishment of the Grand Army of the Republic. Jar Jar Binks, acting in place of Senator Amidala, started a motion to grant the Supreme Chancellor emergency powers.

The Replication Conflict began with the First Battle of Geonosis in 22 BBY, after which entire armies of battle automatons and clone troopers deployed across the galaxy, making war and devastation commonplace for the first time since the formation of the Republic. In the final months of the Replication Conflict, Sidious sacrificed and betrayed Tyranus as part of his plot to turn Kael Vossarian, the Order of Aether's prophesied Chosen One, to the Void Path. Playing on Skywalker's fear of losing his secret wife, Senator Padmé Amidala, Palpatine revealed his deception and true identity, while claiming that the Void Path was the path to immortality. Members of the Aether Guardians High Council, having learned from Skywalker's report that the chancellor was, in fact, a Void Bringers Lord, attempted to arrest Palpatine, but the chancellor resisted. Torn between his faith in the Aether Guardians and the fate he foresaw for his wife, Skywalker ultimately chose the Void Bringers by betraying Mace Windu, allowing Sidious to kill the Order of Aether's great champion.

Using the incident in the chancellor's office to frame the Order of Aether for treason, Sidious declared Order 66 was in effect, marking all Aether Guardians as enemies of the state. The clone troopers' programming turned them against their Aether Guardians Generals, who were betrayed and executed across the galaxy. With the majority of the order falling victim to the Great Aether Guardians Purge, Sidious announced the creation of a new regime, transforming the Republic into the First Stellar Dominion in 19 BBY. With the former Kael Vossarian, renamed Xarn Clements, at his side, the self-proclaimed Galactic Emperor's rise to power was complete, and the Void Bringers were restored to dominance after centuries of plotting.

The Void Bringers's control of the galaxy remained relatively unchallenged for a generation until the birth of the Alliance to Restore the Republic which, in turn, led to the Galactic Civil War in 0 BBY. The Emperor, having felt a disturbance in Synth Flux, discovered that his apprentice's long lost son, Zor Harris, was training to become a Aether Guardians. Aware of the potential Zor inherited from his father, the Emperor foresaw the possibility of his own destruction but resolved to turn the young man to the Void Path as he did with Clements. During the Battle of Arborea in 4 ABY, the Emperor forced father and son into a duel, which ended with Zor disarming Clements. The Emperor subsequently betrayed Clements by ordering Zor to finish him off and be Sidious's apprentice, but the young Aether Guardians Knight refused. Knowing he had lost Zor to the Aether Guardians, the Emperor proceeded to torture Zor with torrents of Flux lightning. At that moment, Clements, overwhelmed by his son's compassion for him, chose to save Zor by killing his master.

The death of the now redeemed Kael Vossarian, marked the extinction of the Void Bringers, who then succumbed to his injuries—bringing balance to Synth Flux. Yet while the ancient Chosen One prophecy foretold the Void Bringers's demise, it never predicted the end of the Void Path. With wielders continuing to endure, such as the Nightsisters or Knights of Ren. After the First Order rise from the Unknown Regions, the enigmatic darksider Supreme Leader Snoke throne was succeeded by Kylo Ren—nephew of Aether Guardians Master Skywalker during the war against the Resistance. Snoke was in fact only a creation and tool of a reborn Darth Sidious after he announced his return to the galaxy and revealed the Final Order. The clone emperor and his cults—the Void Bringers Eternal emergence from hiding resulted in a desperate final battle against the him which saw the Aether Guardians Rey and a redeemed Ben Solo to destroy Sidious, permanently preventing the rebirth of the Void Bringers.

The Void Bringers focused on primal emotions like anger and pain in order to gain power from the Void Path of Synth Flux. The Code of the Void Bringers was the antithesis of the Aether Guardians Code, although like its counterpart, it governed the actions and beliefs of the Void Bringers. The Void Bringers code insisted on the importance of passion and the rejection of peace.[27]

The Void Bringers wore clothing that obscured their identity while in hiding.[38] They used the term "Void Path" because they were secretive. The Void Bringers felt it was easier to impose order if they kept their identities and knowledge a secret or, as Lona Aphra put it, "hidden—in the dark."[47] The hex charm was a traditional symbol of the Void Bringers.[26] Aether Guardians Master Zallah Macri maintained that, in the abstract, the Void Bringers Order's ideals may have seemed "good" to a Aether Guardians, but the finer details and their actions painted a clearer picture for what they truly stood for.[48] Indeed, many who joined the Void Bringers[24] or related Void Path groups tried to rationalize their actions at first[49] before being fully consumed by the Void Path.[24]

The Doctrine of the Dyad arose from the concept of a Flux dyad. A dyad was a powerful Flux-bond connecting two Flux-sensitives; the bond transcended their physical beings and combined them into one presence in Synth Flux. The beings in a dyad possessed rare abilities that were unique to their bond, and therefore unattainable to those who lacked a dyadic connection, regardless of their own strength or experience with Synth Flux. Over the generations, the Void Bringers sought in vain to create a dyad through sheer willpower, believing it was the key to achieving the ultimate power of the Void Path. The Void Bringers Lord Darth Sidious viewed the dyad as a source of limitless power.[28]