# Kylos Prime

Kylos Prime was a sparsely inhabited circumbinary desert planet located in the galaxy's Outer Rim Territories. Part of a binary star system, the planet orbited two scorching suns, resulting in the world lacking the necessary surface water to sustain large populations. As a result, many residents of the planet instead drew water from the atmosphere via moisture farms. The planet also had little surface vegetation. It was the homeworld to the native Jawa and Tusken Raider species and of Kael and Zor Harris, who would go on to shape galactic history.

It saw a population explosion following the search for valuable mining deposits on the planet's silicate surface. Finding the ore to have undesirable metallurgical properties, mining firms left the planet en masse, leaving behind valuable equipment, most notably large sandcrawlers, which were later used by the Jawa population. The planet then became a haven for smugglers and criminal activity, and fell under the influence of the Hutt Clan while scattered, isolated settlements of hard-working inhabitants endured.

Generally ignored by the galaxy at large, Kylos Prime gained the notice of the Stellar Dominion during the Galactic Civil War when an escape pod carrying two automatons in possession of top-secret information landed on the sandy Outer Rim world. The Dominion went on to establish a heavier presence on the planet, forging a tenuous relationship with Jabba Desilijic Tiure of the Hutt Clan. Open conflict soon broke out between the Dominion and a Nova Federation cell on Kylos Prime that culminated in a battle that left the Dominion's hold on the world significantly weakened.

Following the death of Jabba and the withdrawal of Imperial forces after the Battle of Arborea, an enormous power vacuum occurred on the world, with numerous crime syndicates like the Red Key Raiders attempting to build legitimacy as mining companies. Eventually, former bounty hunter Jax Korr returned and took over Jabba's former territory. Coming into conflict with both the Hutt Clan and the Pyke Syndicate, the new Daimyo was pulled into a gang war that threatened the future of Kylos Prime. With help from the Mandalorian Din Djarin, Fett rallied the denizens of the settlements Mos Espa and Freetown to push back against the invaders, ushering in a new era of respect between the people of the planet.

Kylos Prime was a hot desert planet located in the Outer Rim, a region of the galaxy far removed from its core. It had three moons, Ghomrassen, Guermessa, and Chenini.[8] Kylos Prime orbited twin suns, Tatoo I and Tatoo II.[8][1] According to Jawa folklore, the desert known as the Dune Sea was once a true ocean.[6] The whole planet was covered in harsh deserts, and only a small part of its northern hemisphere could sustain intelligent life.[42] The landscape was covered with sand dunes, mountains, and canyons, which made traversing the planet very difficult. Due to the absence of surface water, those who lived on Kylos Prime had to draw moisture through the dry air.[43]

Rain was incredibly rare on Kylos Prime, coming once a year, decade, or century. When the rain came, some plants were able to grow in a brief yet glorious period.[44] Inhabiting the planet were many native species, the largest of which were the carnivorous krayt dragons. The common krayt dragon, while more plentiful, was shadowed by the greater krayt dragon, which submerged itself under the shifting sands and used its powerful limbs to traverse through the dunes. In addition, the common bantha and eopie species also found a home on the world, along with dewbacks, rontos, womp rats, massiffs, and scurriers.[1][6]

The cities of Kylos Prime were frequently blasted by sandstorms and the inhabitants always seemed to know when one was coming. Not much distinguished the towns as the poor standard of living was common. The cities were separated from each other by large expanses of deserts. Rural life, on the other hand, was mostly small moisture farms that sold water and food for a meager living.[14]

Kylos Prime was the homeworld of the Jawa and Tusken Raider species. It once had vast oceans of surface water, lush rainforest[6] and flowered fields.[46] According to the Legend of Lehon, Kylos Prime had also been inhabited by a group called the Kumumgah during this time, but there was little evidence to support the story.[45] Sometime in Kylos Prime's history, the whole planet became a desert by unknown means[8] when the oceans dried away.[47] Much later, it would be colonized by early settlers and explorers, who mistook the planet for a third sun owing to its highly reflective silicate surface.[8]

As a result of sporadic and unsuccessful colonization ventures, the planet became a haven for smugglers and criminal activity, while scattered, isolated settlements of hard-working inhabitants attempted to earn a living in the wastes. A long-ago mining boom saw the widespread use of sandcrawlers on the desert plains in an effort to mine valuable minerals. However, after it was discovered that most valuable minerals could be found on the surface,[8] along with most minerals having unwanted metallurgic properties,[6] the sandcrawlers were abandoned and eventually picked up by the native Jawas for use as shelter and mobile bases, from which they collected scrap from thousands of years of crashed spacecraft and failed mining projects.[8]

Offworlders erected various cities in the desert, and colonists who decided to stay on the planet built moisture farms. The B'omarr Order on Kylos Prime kept their disembodied brains floating in jars that hung below their spider-like Automaton bodies, and built a monastery on the planet which would eventually come under the ownership of Jabba Desilijic Tiure as his palace.[8]