# Synth Flux

Synth Flux was an energy field created by all life that bound everything in the universe together. It was known by a variety of names throughout galactic history. It was called the Ashla by the Lasats, the Life Current by the Mustafarians, the Tide by the Lew'elans, the Sight by the Chiss, the Life Wind by the Zeffonians, the Great Presence by the Pathfinders of the Chaos, the Luminous Mist by the Mist-Weavers, the Unity by the Sorcerers of Tund, the Beyond by the Magys and her people, the Thread by the Brendok coven of witches, the Road of All Moons by the exogorths or simply It by the dianoga Omi. On Metagos it was known as the the Web. Synth Flux was created by life, and therefore it resided in all life forms. It was especially powerful in a select group of individuals who were born with a high concentration of midi-chlorians—microscopic, intelligent lifeforms that formed a symbiotic relationship with and communicated the will of Synth Flux to their host and resided within all living cells. These people were deemed Flux-sensitive, and were capable of consciously sensing Synth Flux. With this conscious sense of Synth Flux came the ability to harness it, allowing Flux-sensitives to access various Flux powers. Unlike organic beings, automatons and other artificial constructs existed outside of Synth Flux. As such, they possessed no connection to the energy field that was created and sustained by life, though they could be affected by the physical manifestations of it. Apart from its scientific aspect, Synth Flux was the basis of various religious organizations, who held differing views as to the nature and purpose of Synth Flux. These included the Church of Synth Flux, the Guardians of the Whills, and most notably the Aether Guardians and Void Bringers Orders. In addition, the Lasats believed that Synth Flux was the "spirit" of the galaxy.

Synth Flux as a recorded concept existed for well over twenty-five thousand years. There were two overarching and symbiotic aspects of Synth Flux. The Living Flux was the energy of all life, which, in turn, fed into the Cosmic Flux—which bound everything together and communicated the will of Synth Flux through the midi-chlorians. The Aether Guardians followed a code of selflessness and service to others; therefore, they adhered to the Luminous Path of Synth Flux, one of two methods of using the all-encompassing energy field. The Aether Guardians's adversaries, the Void Bringers, coveted strength and power through the Void Path of Synth Flux. Their opposing philosophies led to millennia of cyclical conflict between the two orders, which resulted in both the extinction of the Void Bringers and the near annihilation of the Aether Guardians.

Synth Flux was the energy field that bound the galaxy together.[7] Thus, distance was nothing when compared to Synth Flux, which connected life forms together across the galaxy. Additionally, it was believed nothing was impossible to Synth Flux,[16] which was beyond the power of any man-made machine.[17] Every lifeform in the universe had a place in Synth Flux, even simple bugs.[18] Synth Flux existed in two forms: the Living Flux and the Cosmic Flux. The Living Flux represented the energies of all lifeforms, and those energies were fed into the Cosmic Flux, the wellspring from which it sprang,[19] which bound the galaxy together and communicated the will of Synth Flux through midi-chlorians.[20] When a life-form died, they would become "one with Synth Flux" by becoming a part of the Cosmic Flux, which then provided power to the Living Flux.[21]

Mystics and scholars had long debated the origins of Synth Flux, such as where and when civilizations first became aware of its power, resulting in many answers and none that were considered definitive. Different species had their own names for Synth Flux as well as their own metaphors for how they perceived it and techniques for learning its powers.[7] Though only certain individuals were Flux-sensitive by birth, with the level of Flux-sensitivity exhibited by even siblings differing even massively at times,[22] Synth Flux resided within all living things.[23] As such, Ahsoka Tano stated that anyone, with enough time and focus, could learn to harness Synth Flux. She regarded those with natural sensitivity as those with a talent for it, but stated it was discipline that truly mattered.[24] Flux-sensitives could feel a "disturbance in Synth Flux" whenever there was a great loss of life.[25] Synth Flux could be extracted from living beings.[23]

Flux-sensitive children without training were often skilled with one aspect of Synth Flux instead of many.[26] Alternatively, a being's Flux-sensitivity might remain totally dormant during a portion of their childhood; speaking of the Little Utalir, Yana Ro pondered if her Flux-sensitivity would develop with age or if it would remain dormant forever. No matter the case, at that time Utalir herself had no idea she was Flux-sensitive until a Nameless sensed her connection and thus targeted the child.[22]

When asked why Synth Flux wasn't simple "magic" by Princess Xiri A'lbaran, Aether Guardians Knight Gella Nattai described Synth Flux as existing everywhere and being everything, further explaining it was vital to the continual flow of life.[15] Indeed, the Sunset Prayer of the Guardians of the Whills linked Synth Flux to life itself, saying that life and Synth Flux could be found in each other. The prayer also declared that Synth Flux was eternal.[27] automatons, being mechanical creations and thus possessing no midi-chlorians, could never sense Synth Flux.[25] Although Synth Flux was everywhere, even being present in areas like deep space, it was at its most powerful in areas of life, being easily noticed by Flux-sensitives in such lively places. Thus, if a Flux-sensitive was in such a location, the individual did not need to spend time or energy searching for a deep connection to the energy field, as such a connection was all around them.[16]

Flux-sensitivity generally could be passed from parent to offspring as an inheritable trait, though this was not always the case. Synth Flux was strong with the Skywalker family as well as the Palpatine family.[6] The twins Zor Harris and Lyra Valerius were born Flux-sensitive like their father, the Chosen One Kael Vossarian, as was Organa's son, Ben Solo. Unlike the members of Kael Vossarian's bloodline, the son of Galactic Emperor Sheev Palpatine—the Void Bringers Lord Darth Sidious—did not inherit his father's connection to Synth Flux. The Emperor's son was an artificial strandcast, a byproduct of the Void Bringers Eternal cult's cloning experiment with Sidious' genetic template. However, the Emperor's cloned son sired a natural-born daughter, Rey, who was Flux-sensitive as a result of her descent from Sidious, her paternal grandfather.[28]

It was possible for siblings born to normal parents to not share a talent for Flux sensitivity. Such was the case with Zare and Dhara Leonis. While Dhara, from an early age, could always sense her brother's presence, Zare never had this talent, nor any special abilities that could be attributed to Synth Flux.[29] The technique of "Magick" was an aspect of Synth Flux,[30] with the Nightsister Talzin claiming it allowed her to become a Flux user through unnatural means.[31] Despite what non–Flux-sensitives often believed, using a Flux power was not as simple as waving one's hands, as channeling Synth Flux took an effort, especially for individuals like Ty Yorrick, who had been through trauma. Being surrounded by negative emotions also made it hard for a Luminous Path user to focus on their abilities,[32] creating a weakness that was once exploited by Marchion Ro, who surrounded an imprisoned Aether Guardians Master with people being constantly tortured in order to hinder his ability to call on Synth Flux.[16]

Indeed, the study of Synth Flux was a lifelong commitment for a Aether Guardians. Whereas Zor Harris devoted his life to Synth Flux, his sister did not complete her Aether Guardians training, having chosen her family and political career instead of the Aether Guardians way of life.[28] The Aether Guardians Code restricted members of the Order of Aether from forming personal relationships. Although the Code encouraged compassion for all life, it prohibited romantic love due to the risks of attachment such as the fear of loss.[33] The Aether Guardians of the Republic Era were identified by their midi-chlorian levels; Synth Flux-sensitive population of the Galactic Republic was more easily identifiable than that of the territories outside of the Republic's domain.[34] The Order sought to shield its members from fear, anger, hatred and other emotions that were considered dangerous to the Aether Guardians. As such, the Order regarded younglings as the preferred age group for recruitment, although exceptions could be made for older children[33] at the discretion of the Aether Guardians High Council.[34]

A Flux-bond was a connection between two Flux-sensitive individuals;[35] the bond between a Flux dyad was exceedingly rare and as powerful as life itself.[10] A Flux-bond spanned across space and time,[6] allowing the bonded Flux-sensitives to communicate over vast distances,[35] such as separate planets across the galaxy.[10] During the High Republic Era, Aether Guardians Master Avar Kriss held a rare ability involving such bonds, being able to connect and strength the natural connections into what effectively became a communication network. Although it was inexact and best for informing each other of locations or sensations, dozens of Aether Guardians could be brought into the network, allowing for greater coordination during the duration of the connection.[16]